--- PAGE 1 ---


--- PAGE 2 ---
                      INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
S. No Particulars Page No. 
A List of Abbreviations 1 
B Important Information and Dates at a Glance 2 
Chapter 1: Introduction 
1 About National Testing Agency (NTA) 3 
Chapter 2: National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test NEET (UG) – 2026 
1 About NEET (UG) 4 
2 NEET (UG) – 2026 and Role of NTA 4 
3 Disclaimer 5 
4 Related Ministries / Departments / Bodies / Regulations / Websites 6 
5 Important Instructions 8 
Chapter 3: Instructions for submission of Application Form/ Payment of FEE 
1 Readiness for filling up Application Form 13 
2 Registration 13 
3 Application Procedure 13 
4 Checklist for filling the Online Application Form 19 
Chapter 4: Examination Scheme 
1 Syllabus of the Test 21 
2 Pattern of the Test 21 
3 Important Points to Note 21 
4 Mode of Examination 22 
5 Duration of the Test 22 
6 Medium of Question Paper 22 
Chapter 5: Cities for Exam Centres of NEET (UG)-2026 Examination 24 
Chapter 6: Eligibility and Qualifications for MBBS and BDS Course 
1 Eligibility to Appear in NEET (UG)-2026 25 
2 Criteria for NRI/OCI/ Foreign Nationals 25 
3 Qualification and Qualifying examination codes 26 
Chapter 7: Counselling and Reservation for Admission to MBBS, BAMS, BUMS, BSMS, BHMS, BDS and 
B.Sc. Nursing Courses 
1 Admission Procedure 29 
2 Admission in State Medical Colleges / Universities / Institutions / private medical 
colleges for seats other than 15% All India Quota by respective State/UT counselling 
authorities 
30 
3 Admission to 15% All India Quota/ AIIMS / JIPMER / Central Universities 
(DU/BHU/AMU) / AFMC / GGSIPU / ESIC Medical Colleges / Deemed Universities 
by MCC of DGHS 
30 
4 Reservation Policy for admission to MBBS/BDS/B.Sc. Nursing conducted by  
MCC/DGHS 
32 
5 Provisions relating to Persons with Disability (PwD)/ Persons with Benchmark 
Disability (PwBD) (For the purpose of appearing in the NEET Examination) 
33 
6 Reservation in Central Institutes / Universities 36 
7 Guidelines for PwBD Candidates (For Admission purpose) 36 
8 Instructions for Counselling by the MCC for MBBS and BDS Admission 37 
Chapter 8: Merit List and Qualifying Criteria 
1 Qualifying Criteria 39 
2 The Inter-se-merit of candidates for tie-breaking 40 

--- PAGE 3 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
S. No Particulars Page No. 
3 Merit list for counselling under 15% All India Quota 40 
4 Merit list for seats other than 15% All India Quota 40 
Chapter 9: Eligibility Criteria/Quota of Seats/Reservation/Result Criteria/Counselling for admission to 
BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS Courses 
1 Admission to All India Seats of BAMS, BSMS, BUMS and BHMS courses through 
NEET (UG)-2026. 
41 
2 Eligibility criteria for admission to BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS courses 41 
3 The quota of seats for admission to BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS courses 41 
4 Reservation of seats for SC, ST, OBC -NCL, EWS, PwBD etc. for admission to 
BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS courses 
41 
5 Percentage criteria for declaration of result/ranking for BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS 
courses 
42 
6 Counselling procedure for admission to BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS courses for All 
India Quota seats (AIQ) 
42 
7 Important information for the application process 43 
Chapter 10: Admit Card 44 
Chapter 11: Barred Items and Dress Code 
1 Barred Items 45 
2 Dress Code 45 
Chapter 12: Information for Parents/Guardians 46 
Chapter 13: Instructions to be followed in the Examination Hall 47 
Chapter 14: Unfair Means/Practices & Breach of Examination Rules 
1 Definition 49 
2 Punishment for using unfair means practices 50 
3 Cancellation of result 50 
Chapter 15: Post Examination Activities & Declaration of Result 
1 Display of OMR sheets and responses on the website and challenging the grading 
of questions on OMR 
51 
2 Display of Answer Keys for the Challenge 51 
3 Declaration of Result 51 
4 Re-checking/Re-evaluation of Answer Sheets 52 
5 Use of the Result of NEET (UG)-2026 by other organizations 52 
Chapter 16: Miscellaneous Provisions 
1 Caution Notice 53 
2 Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) 53 
3 Correspondence regarding NEET (UG) - 2026 53 
4 Common Services Centres/Facilitation Centres 54 
5 Weeding out Rules 54 
6 Legal Jurisdiction 54 
7 Safe Custody of OMR Sheet & Score Card in DigiLocker 54 
 
S. No Appendix Particulars Page No. 
1 I The National Medical Commission Act (2019) 56 
2 II State Medical Education Directorates & Offices where Counselling 
related information is available 
57 
3 III Syllabus of NEET (UG)-2026 60 

--- PAGE 4 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
S. No Appendix Particulars Page No. 
4 IV Details of Medical / Dental / Ayurveda / Siddha / Unani / Homoeopathy 
Colleges 
77 
5 V State/Union Territory Wise List of Examination Cities for National 
Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET (UG)-2026) 
78 
6 VI Embassy Certificate of Foreign Candidate (For NRI Candidates) 91 
7 VII Documentary Proof of Citizenship  
(For Foreign and OCI Candidates) 
92 
8 VIII Procedure for Online Payment of Fee and Helpline for Payment 
Related Queries 
93 
9 IX Replica of Application Form  96 
10 X Important Points to Note 109 
 
S. No Annexure Particulars Page No. 
1 I The Gazette of India Extraordinary 111 
2 II Certificate regarding physical limitation in an examinee to write 114 
3 III (More than 40%) 
Letter of Undertaking for Using Own Scribe 
115 
4 IV Certificate for person with specified disability covered under the definition 
of Section 2 (s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition 
of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. persons having less than 40% disability 
and having difficulty in writing 
116 
5 V (Less than 40%) 
Letter of Undertaking by the person with specified disability covered under 
the definition of Section 2 (s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under 
the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. persons having less than 
40% disability and having difficulty in writing 
117 
6 VI Verification of Identity certificate to be signed and attested by 
School/College Principal or Headmaster/obtain attestation from a Class -I 
Gazetted Officer 
118 
 
  

--- PAGE 5 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
  
 
VISION   
 
The right candidates joining best institutions will give India her demographic dividend.  
 
 
OBJECTIVES 
 
• To conduct efficient, transparent and international standards tests in order to assess 
the competency of candidates for admission purposes. 
• To undertake research on educational,  professional and testing systems to identify 
gaps in the knowledge systems and take steps for bridging them. 
• To identify experts and institutions in setting examination questions 
 
CORE VALUES  
 
NTA will create system which will promote teaching (by teachers), learning (by students) and 
assessment (by parents and institutions). NTA strongly believes in quality, efficiency, 
effectiveness, equity and security of assessment. To practice these values,  NTA will 
constantly engage with its stakeholders, viz. students, parents, teachers, experts and 
partner institutions. 
 
  

--- PAGE 6 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
1 
A. LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
AACCC AYUSH Admission Central Counselling Committee 
AFMC Armed Forces Medical College 
AFMS Armed Forces Medical Services 
AIIMS All India Institute of Medical Sciences 
AMU Aligarh Muslim University 
BAMS Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine & Surgery 
BDS Bachelor of Dental Surgery 
BHMS Bachelor of Homoeopathic Medicine & Surgery 
BHU Banaras Hindu University 
BoGCCH Board of Governors of Central Council of Homoeopathy 
B.Sc (N)  Bachelor of Science in Nursing 
BSMS Bachelor of Siddha Medicine & Surgery 
BUMS Bachelor of Unani Medicine & Surgery 
CCIM Central Council of Indian Medicine 
DCI Dental Council of India 
DGHS Directorate General of Health Services 
DU Delhi University 
ESIC Employees’ State Insurance Corporation 
EWS Economically Weaker Section 
GGSIPU Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University 
GST Goods & Service Tax 
INI Institute of National Importance 
JIPMER Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research 
MBBS Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 
MCC Medical Counselling Committee 
MCI Medical Council of India 
MNS Military Nursing Service 
MoH&FW Ministry of Health and Family Welfare 
MoA Ministry of Ayush 
NCISM National Commission for Indian System of Medicine 
NCH National Commission for Homoeopathy 
NEET (UG) National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test for admission to Undergraduate 
Course 
NMC National Medical Commission 
OBC-NCL Other Backward Classes-Non Creamy Layer 
PwBD Persons with Benchmark Disabilities 
RPwD The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 
SC Scheduled Castes 
ST Scheduled Tribes 
OCI Overseas Citizens of India 
UoI Union of India 
UT Union Territory 
UFM Unfair Means  
MoE Ministry of Education 
PwD Persons with Disabilities 
UGMEB Under Graduate Medical Education Board 
AIQ All India Quota 
CSC Common Services Centre 

--- PAGE 7 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
2 
B. IMPORTANT INFORMATION AND DATES AT A GLANCE 
EVENTS DATES 
Online Submission of Application Form 08 February 2026 to 08 March 2026  
(upto 09:00 P.M.) 
Last date of successful transaction of fee 
through Credit/Debit Card/Net-Banking/UPI 
08 March 2026  
(upto 11:50 P.M.) 
Correction in Particulars  10 March 2026 to 12 March 2026 
Announcement of City Intimation To be announced later on the website 
Downloading of Admit Cards from the NTA 
website 
To be announced later on the website 
Date of Examination 03 May 2026 (Sunday) 
Duration of Examination 180 minutes (03 hours) 
Timing of Examination 02:00 PM to 05:00 PM (Indian Standard 
Time) 
Centre of NEET (UG) - 2026 Examination As indicated on Admit Card 
Display of Recorded Responses and Answer 
Keys 
To be announced later on the website 
Website(s) https://nta.ac.in/ 
https://neet.nta.nic.in/ 
Declaration of Result on NTA website To be announced later on the website 
                                                FEE PAYBALE FOR NEET (UG) 2026 
Category of Candidate In India 
(Fee in ₹) 
Outside India 
General ₹ 1700/- ₹ 9500/- 
General-EWS/ OBC-NCL* ₹ 1600/- 
SC/ST/PwBD/PwD/Third Gender ₹ 1000/- 
*OBC-NCL (Other Backward Classes)-NCL (Non-Creamy Layer) as per the Central List of Other 
Backward Classes available on the National Commission for Backward Classes. The candidates 
falling in this list (available on http://www.ncbc.nic.in/) may mention OBC -NCL in the Category 
Column.  
TIMING AND PATTERN OF NEET (UG) 2026 
The pattern for the NEET (UG) - 2026 is as follows: 
 
Subject Type of Questions Duration Number of 
Questions 
Marks 
Physics MCQ 
(Multiple Choice Questions) 
with four options and single 
correct answer/best option. 
02:00 PM to 
05:00 PM 
45 180 
Chemistry 45 180 
Biology (Botany 
& Zoology) 
90 360 
 180 720 
 
Instructions in the Information Bulletin may change /updated based on decisions taken by the NTA 
and other authorities from time to time. Aspirants are, therefore, advised to regularly visit the NTA 
official website at www.nta.ac.in and https://neet.nta.nic.in/ for further updates, instructions, or 
public notices regarding NEET (UG) - 2026. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
3 
 
CHAPTER 1 
INTRODUCTION 
 
1. ABOUT NATIONAL TESTING AGENCY (NTA) 
The Ministry of Education (MoE), Government of India (GoI) has established the National Testing 
Agency (NTA) as an independent, autonomous, and self -sustained premier testing organization 
under the Societies Registration Act (1860) for conducting efficient , transparent, and international 
standardized tests in order to assess the competency of candidates for admission to premier higher 
education institutions with a mission to improve equity and quality in education by developing and 
administering research -based valid, reliable, efficient, transparent, fair and international level 
assessments. 
 
NTA strongly believes in the quality, efficiency, effectiveness, equity, and security of assessments.  
 
THE OBJECTIVES OF NTA, INTER ALIA, INCLUDE: 
 
i) To conduct efficient, transparent, and international standardized tests in order to assess the 
competency of candidates for admission. 
 
ii) To undertake research on educational, professional, and testing systems to identify gaps in 
the knowledge systems and take steps for bridging them.  
 
iii) To produce and disseminate information and research on education and professional 
development standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 9 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
4 
CHAPTER 2 
NATIONAL ELIGIBILITY-CUM-ENTRANCE TEST NEET (UG) – 2026 
 
1. ABOUT NEET (UG) 
i. The NEET (UG) is being conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) since 2019 with the 
approval of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Human Resource 
Development (which is now known as the Ministry of Education), in pursuance of the direction of 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India vide Judgement dated 22.11. 2018 in C.A. No. 11230 of 
2018 in the matter of CBSE Vs. T.K. Rangarajan & Ors. (Para 22). 
ii. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) is being conducted by NTA since 2019 for 
admission to the undergraduate medical education, with the approval of the Ministry of Health & 
Family Welfare (vide O.M. no. V.11025/14/216-MEP dated 6th December 2017) and MHRD (vide 
Order No 35-5/2017-TS.I dated 24th September 2018). 
iii. As per Section 14 of the National Medical Commission Act, 2019, the NEET (UG) has to be 
conducted as a common and uniform National Eligibility -cum-Entrance Test [(NEET (UG)] for 
admission to undergraduate medical education in all medical institutions. Similarly, as per 
Section 14 of the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine Act, 2020, there shall 
be a uniform NEET (UG) for admission to undergraduate courses in each of the disciplines i.e. 
BAMS, BUMS, and BSMS courses of the Indian System of Medicine in all Medical Institutions 
governed under this Act. As per Section 14 of the National Commission for Homeopathy Act, 
2020, there shall be a uniform NEET (UG) for admission to undergraduate course, i.e. BHMS 
course of National Commission for Homoeopathy governed under this Act.   Similar provisions 
for admission to the BDS course are contained under the Dentists Act, 1948 and Regulations 
made thereunder.   
iv. The Constitutional validity of this Act has been upheld by the Hon’ble Apex Court vide its 
Judgement dated 29 April 2020 in the matter of Christian Medical College Vellore Association 
vs. UOI & Ors., while disposing of the transferred Case (Civil) No. 98 o f 2021 & connected 
Transferred Cases, Writ Petitions & SLP. 
v. NEET (UG) has been a qualifying entrance exam since 2020 for admission to the MBBS courses 
in AIIMS and JIPMER (although such Medical Institutions are governed under separate 
Statutes), as per the provisions under Section 14 (1) of the NMC Act (2019). 
vi. A uniform entrance examination shall be conducted for all medical educational institutions at the 
undergraduate level, as provided under Section 10 -D of the Medical Council Act, 1956 (as 
amended from time to time). This requirement has been reiterated unde r the National Medical 
Commission Act, 2019, Chapter IV (Examinations), Clause 14(1), which mandates that there 
shall be a uniform National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate 
courses in all medical institutions. 
2. NEET (UG) – 2026 AND ROLE OF NTA 
i. The NEET (UG) - 2026 is going to be conducted by NTA as per the Schedule given in the 
Information at a Glance for admission to MBBS, BDS, BAMS, BUMS, BSMS, and BHMS Courses 
as per the relevant norms/guidelines/regulations notified by the concerned Regulatory Bodies of 
the Indian System of Medicine in all Medical Institutions governed under this Act.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
5 
ii. The official website of the NTA for NEET (UG) - 2026 is https://neet.nta.nic.in/.  All the test-related 
information, as amended from time to time (if any), will be available on this website only. 
Candidates must regularly visit this website for the latest updates. 
3. DISCLAIMER 
i. The responsibility of National Testing Agency (NTA) is limited to inviting online applications, 
the conduct of the entrance test, declaration of the result, and providing All India Rank (AIR) to 
the Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 
Government of India. 
ii. The information contained in this Information Bulletin relating to the pattern of exam, 
syllabus, eligibility criteria for appearing in NEET (UG), the quota of seats, reservation, 
PwBD/PwD, admission norms /procedure pertaining to the concerned courses are as per 
the norms set out by the respective Regulatory Bodies. 
iii. The Result and All India Rank of NEET (UG) will be prepared/notified by NTA as per the 
norms/criteria fixed by the NMC/DCI (for MBBS/BDS), by NCISM (for BAMS/BSMS/ BUMS) 
and by NCH (for BHMS).  
iv. Hence, in case of any doubt/ dispute, the Information in respect of the above -mentioned 
subject matters, as provided in the respective regulations/notifications of the concerned 
Regulatory Bodies, shall be considered authentic and final.  
v. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Information Bulletin, the decision of 
NTA/MoE/MoH&FW/NMC/NCISM/DGHS/DCI/MoA/NCH shall be final and binding. 
vi. All disputes pertaining to the conduct of examination shall fall within the jurisdiction of the 
Court(s) in Delhi only. 
 
Note: 
(i) Undergraduate Medical Courses refer to MBBS /BDS /Dental /BAMS/ BSMS /BUMS 
/BHMS Courses. 
 
(ii) Candidates are also advised to regularly visit the websites of the respective 
institutions/State Governments for the latest updates. 
  

--- PAGE 11 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
6 
4. RELATED MINISTRIES / DEPARTMENTS / BODIES / REGULATIONS / WEBSITES 
S. No. MINISTRY BODIES Regulations WEBSITE PURPOSE 
1.  Ministry of 
Health & 
Family 
Welfare of 
Central 
Government 
(https://www.
mohfw.gov.in
/)  & 
Department 
of Medical 
Education of 
State 
Government
s / UTs   
NMC Graduate Medical 
Education 
Regulations (1997), 
as amended from 
time to time 
(https://www.nmc.or
g.in/rules-
regulations/graduate
-medical-education-
regulations-1997) 
(https://www.nmc.or
g.in/e-gazette/e-
gazette-nmc)   
www.nmc.org.in For information 
relating to the 
Regulations on 
Graduate Medical 
Education (MBBS 
and NEET).   
DCI  BDS COURSE 
REGULATIONS 
(2007), as amended 
from time to time. 
www.dciindia.gov.in For information 
relating to BDS 
Course and 
Regulations for 
admission to 
BDS.   
DGHS Directorate General 
of Health Services 
www.dghs.gov.in For information 
relating to quota, 
admission, and 
counselling-
related policy 
matters.   
MCC of DGHS  Counselling Scheme 
for NEET (UG)  
https://mcc.nic.in/U
GCounselling/ 
 
For information 
relating to 
counselling dates/ 
procedures etc. 
under 15% All 
India Quota of 
Seats for MBBS / 
BDS  
Counselling 
Authority of 
respective State 
Governments / 
UTs  
Guidelines issued by 
the respective 
Directorate of 
Medical Education 
Please see 
Appendix-II 
relating to the 
contact details of 
the Medical 
Counselling 
Committee of the 
Directorate of 
Medical Education 
of the respective 
State Government.  
For information 
relating to 
counselling 
dates/procedures 
etc. for State 
Quota Seats for 
MBBS / BDS 
2.  Ministry of 
AYUSH, 
Govt. of India 
National 
Commission for 
Indian System of 
Medicine 
(NCISM)  
1. Minimum 
Standards of 
Undergraduate 
Ayurveda Education 
Regulations, 2022 
2. Minimum 
Standards of 
Undergraduate 
Unani Regulations, 
2022 
3. Minimum 
Standards of 
Undergraduate 
https://ncismindia.o
rg; 
chairman@ncismin
dia.org 
secretary@ncismin
dia.org; 
helpdesk@ncismin
dia.org 
For information 
relating to BAMS, 
BSMS & BUMS 
Courses and 
Regulations 
relating to them.  

--- PAGE 12 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
7 
S. No. MINISTRY BODIES Regulations WEBSITE PURPOSE 
Siddha Education 
Regulations, 2022  
National 
Commission for 
Homoeopathy 
(NCH)  
National 
Commission for 
Homoeopathy Act, 
2020, National 
Commission for 
Homoeopathy 
(Homoeopathy 
Graduate Degree 
Course – Bachelor 
of Homoeopathic 
Medicine and 
Surgery (B.H.M.S) 
Regulations -2022. 
National 
Commission for 
Homoeopathy 
(Homoeopathy 
Graduate Degree 
Course – Bachelor 
of Homoeopathic 
Medicine and 
Surgery (B.H.M.S.) 
Amendment 
Regulations 2025. 
https://nch.org.in  For information 
relating to BHMS 
Course. 
AYUSH 
Admissions 
Central 
Counseling 
Committee 
(AACCC) 
Counselling 
Guidelines issued by 
NCISM/NCH  
https://aaccc.gov.in
/aacccug/home/ho
mepage 
For information 
relating to 
counselling 
dates/procedures 
etc. under Central 
Quota of Seats for 
BAMS, BSMS, 
BUMS & BHMS. 
AYUSH 
Admissions 
Counselling 
Committee of 
respective State 
Governments 
and UTs  
Counselling 
Guidelines issued by 
NCISM/NCH and 
respective State 
Governments / UTs. 
The website of the 
Directorate of 
AYUSH of 
respective State 
Governments and 
UTs may be 
referred to.  
For information 
relating to 
counselling 
dates/procedures 
etc. under State 
Quota of Seats for 
BAMS, BSMS, 
BUMS & BHMS. 
3.  Ministry of 
Education 
(MoE), 
Department 
of Higher 
Education 
(TS-1) 
Section  
(https://www.
education.go
v.in/en/highe
r_education) 
National Testing 
Agency (NTA) 
Information Bulletins 
issued by NTA for the 
Exams conducted by 
it.  
www.nta.ac.in For information 
about NTA and 
the exams 
conducted by it.  
Information Bulletin 
of NEET (UG) 
https://neet.nta.nic.i
n/ 
Information 
relating to NEET 
(UG)  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
8 
A. IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS: 
Candidates are strongly advised to read carefully all the instructions  before applying for NEET  
(UG) 2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Download Information Bulletin and Replica of Application Form. Read these carefully to ensure your 
eligibility.  
 
2. Carefully read the Information Bulletin and instructions/ procedures given therein  and eligibility to 
appear in the test, before you start filling the Online Application Form. Candidates must strictly follow 
the instructions given in the Information Bulletin and on the NTA website. Candidates not complying 
with the instructions shall be summarily disqualified 
 
3. You can apply for NEET (UG) -2026 ‘ON -LINE’ only through the official website of NEET (UG) 
(https://neet.nta.nic.in).  Submission of the Online Application Form may be done by accessing the 
NTA website https://neet.nta.nic.in/.  
 
4. The entire application process for NEET (UG) - 2026 is online, including uploading of scanned 
images/documents, payment of fees, and generation of the Confirmation Page, Admit Card, etc. 
Therefore, candidates are not required to send/submit any document(s) including 
Confirmation Page to NTA through Post/ Fax/WhatsApp/Email/by Hand. The Application Form 
in any other mode will not be accepted.  
 
5. It has been observed in the past, that  during the process of filling of online application form, 
certain candidates registered using identity proof documents other than the Aadhaar Card, for 
which additional documents are required to be uploaded/submitted to ascertain their identity. 
Therefore, to avoid the need for submitting additional documents, candidate s may consider 
using their own Aadhaar Card as the mode of Identity verification while completing the online 
application form. 
 
6. Candidates must ensure that mobile numbers and e -mail ID filled in the online Application Form are 
their own and/or of their Parents/Guardian only, as NTA will communicate through SMS or e-mail on 
the given mobile number and e-mail ID only. 
 
7. Application once submitted cannot be withdrawn . Incomplete applications and applications not in 
accordance with instructions are liable to be rejected without any further intimation.  
 
8. Candidates shall ensure that the information entered by them in their online Application Form  is 
correct. Request for change in any particulars in the online Application shall not be entertained under 
any circumstances. 
 
9. Those Candidates who have passed should fill Code 02 to 07 against the column provided for, in 
case of Qualifying Examinatio n. Candidate s are advised to refer to Chapter  6 for eligibility and 
qualification for appearing in NEET (UG) 2026. 
 
Candidates are advised to fill the Application Form carefully. Corrections in only certain 
fields will be permitted during the stipulated correction window period which will be notified 
at a later stage. 
 
Multiple Application Forms submitted by a candidate will not be accepted and will lead to 
the cancellation of his/her candidature/result. 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
9 
10. Candidates appearing in Class 12 in 2026 should select Qualifying Code as 01. 
 
11. The Application Form other than the one filled in online mode will not be accepted. The Candidates 
are not required to send the Confirmation Page of the Online Application Form or any other 
document to the NTA. However, the candidates are advised to preserve sufficient number of hard 
copies of the Confirmation Page along with the proof of fee paid for future reference. 
 
12. The Candidate should fill in complete correspondence and permanent address with the pin code, 
e-mail address, and mobile number (own or Parents/Guardian only) for future correspondence. 
 
13. All candidates must ensure that they have provided the correct e -mail address and mobile 
number. When Candidates register, they have to enter the OTP received on their registered 
Mobile Number, and before submitting the fees, they have to enter the OTP rec eived on their 
registered e-mail address.  
 
14. Candidates must ensure that their email address and mobile number which they are going to 
register in their online Application Form are their own  and/or Parents/Guardians only , as 
relevant/important information/ communication will be sent by NTA through e -mail on the 
registered mail address and/or through SMS on the registered mobile number only . NTA will 
NOT be responsible for any incorrect credentials and for any non-communication/miscommunication 
with a candidate due to error in the email address or mobile number given by him/her or if the details 
provided by him/her are other than his/her own. Candidates are advised to visit the NTA Website and 
check their e-mails regularly for the latest updates. 
 
15. It is mandatory to provide the Mobile Number and e-mail of the Parent or Guardian during the 
submission of the online Application Form of NEET (UG) – 2026 as a copy of the Confirmation 
Page, Scanned OMR, and Score Card of NEET (UG) – 2026 will be sent to the registered e-mail 
address of the Candidates as well as on Parents/Guardians e-mail address as provided in the 
Application Form.  
 
16. Information provided by the candidates in their respective online Application Form, like contact details, 
personal details, address, disability details, identity details, register APAAR ID, examination cities, 
qualification details, additional details, emergency contact details, capture live photograph  will be 
treated as final and non -editable post payment of application fees and generation of confirmation 
page. Any request for change in these particulars will not be considered by NTA under any 
circumstances except in the permissible fields during stipulated correction window period. 
 
17. Fee can be submitted only online through Net Banking, Credit Card, Debit Card, or UPI Services. 
Processing charges and GST as applicable are chargeable from the candidate (in addition to the 
examination fee) by the concerned Bank /Payment Gateway Integrator. 
 
18. The Confirmation Page of the online Application Form will be generated only after the successful 
payment of the fee by the Candidate.  
 
19. NTA does not edit/modify/alter any information entered by the candidates after completion of the 
application process under any circumstances. Any request for change in information thereafter will not 
be entertained. Therefore, candidates are advised to exe rcise utmost caution before filling up the 
correct details in the Application Form. 
 
20. NTA disclaims any liability that may arise to a candidate(s) due to incorrect information provided by 
him/her in his/her online Application Form.  
 
21. Candidates shall appear at their own cost at the examination centre on the date and time indicated on 
their Admit Cards issued by the NTA in due course through its website. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
10 
 
22. NTA reserves the right to withdraw permission, granted inadvertently if any, to a candidate who is not 
eligible to appear in the NEET (UG) - 2026 even though the Admit Card has been issued by the NTA. 
 
 
23. Candidate should not give the postal address, contact number/mobile number, and e -mail ID of 
Coaching Centres in their Online Application Form. 
 
 
24. All Candidates shall ensure that the information (like his/her name, mother’s name, father’s name, 
gender, date of birth, category, PwBD/PwD status, mobile number, e-mail address, photographs, Left 
and Right Hand Fingers and Thumb impression, and signature, choice of cities for exam Centre, etc.) 
provided by them in their online Application Form is correct and their own. 
 
25. Candidate’s eligibility for NEET (UG) - 2026 is purely provisional and is subject to fulfillment of eligibility 
criteria prescribed by the NMC / DCI / NCISM /NCH /  Ministry of Health & Family Welfare / Ministry 
of AYUSH, as the case may be. 
 
26. NTA is facilitating all candidates with an additional platform of DigiLocker to download their 
documents like Confirmation Page, Admit Card, Score Cards, etc. Instruction will be provided 
in subsequent phases. Candidates are advised to visit the NTA Website and check their e-mails 
regularly for the latest updates. 
 
27. Any request to change the Question Paper Medium, Examination Centre, Date, and Time 
provided on the Admit Card shall not be considered under any circumstances.   
 
28. Candidates are advised to take 6-8 Passport size coloured photographs with white background. The 
photographs are to be used for uploading on Online Application Form, for examination, and also for 
Counselling/Admission processes. This is to ensure that the same photograph is used for all 
documents and all purposes related to NEET (UG) - 2026. 
 
29. Candidates are strongly advised and requested to retain sufficient number of hard copies of each of 
the Confirmation Page, Admit Card, and Score Card of the NEET (UG) – 2026 as the same will be 
available only for a stipulated time period as per Weeding Out Policy (Please refer weeding out policy). 
 
30. All Candidates appearing in NEET (UG) – 2026 must regularly check updates on the website of NTA 
and other concerned counselling authorities of participating States/Universities/Institutions, till the 
conclusion of the final round of Counselling. 
 
31. In case of any ambiguity in the interpretation of any of the instructions/ terms/ rules/ regulations/ criteria 
regarding the determination of eligibility/ information contained therein, the interpretation of the 
MoE/NMC/ DCI/ NCISM/ NCH / Ministry of Health & Family Welfare / Ministry of AYUSH, as the 
case may be, shall be final and binding. 
 
32. In case of any ambiguity in the interpretation of any of the norms /terms /rules/instructions regarding 
registration of candidates, allocation of Exam Centre, issuance of Admit Card, conduct of exam and 
publication of Result and All India Rank (AIR), the i nterpretation /determination of NTA shall be final 
and binding. 
 
33. The information about the State/UT from where 12th/equivalent passed/appearing as per candidate’s 
information, is purely provisional for appearing in the NEET UG 2026 examination and does not 
guarantee admission in that State. The allocation of seats will be governed by the Guidelines issued 
by National Medical Commission (NMC) with respect to admission in the MBB S course for the post 
examination and counselling process. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
11 
 
34. Candidates are NOT allowed to carry Instruments, Geometry or Pencil box, Handbag, Purse, 
any kind of Paper/ Stationery/ Textual material (printed or written material), Eatables and Water 
(loose or packed), Mobile Phone/ Earphone/ Microphone/ Pager, Calcula tor, DocuPen, Slide 
Rules, Log Tables, Camera, Tape Recorder, Electronic Watches with facilities of calculator, any 
metallic item or electronic gadgets/ devices in the Examination Hall/Room. 
 
35. The candidates will be subjected to extensive and compulsory frisking before entering the 
Examination Centre with the help of highly sensitive metal detectors.  They may also undergo 
various other identity verification checks, such as Biometric  Authentication, Face 
Authentication, videography etc.  
 
36. Merely appearing and qualifying in NEET (UG) - 2026 does not confer any right to the candidate for 
admission to Undergraduate Medical Courses . The selection and admission to Undergraduate 
Medical Courses seats in any Medical Institution recognized for offering Undergraduate Medical 
Courses is subject to fulfilling the admission criteria, eligibility, rank in the merit list, medical fitness, 
and such other criteria as may be prescribed by the Government of India, respective States, 
Universities, Institutions and Medical/ Dental/ Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani/ Homoeopathy Colleges. 
 
37. The candidates are required to fill in the Online Application Form with correct and complete information 
carefully. If any incomplete or false information is given, then the candidate will be solely responsible 
for the same and on the basis of false and in complete information, the Application Form shall be 
rejected at any stage of the selection without giving any reasons/notice. On furnishing any false 
certificates or indicating wrong category/sub -category regarding caste in the application form or in 
case of any other default, NTA/respective authorities/ counselling and/or admitting institutes may reject 
the candidature at any stage of the selection and may take all necessary action.  
 
38. Information uploaded on the website shall not be provided to the candidate or any other person under 
R.T.I. Act, 2005. The information uploaded on the website shall remain for a specific period only. 
Therefore, the candidates are advised to download the uploaded information and keep up with them 
for future. In due course of examination or in midway of process, neither any application under Right 
to Information Act, 2005 shall be entertained nor information shall be provided. Factual Information 
under R.T.I., Act shall be provided only after declaration of final result. Inferential questions or 
speculative questions shall not be answered in RTI. 
 
39. The Result of the Candidates who indulge in Unfair Means (UFM) Practices shall not be declared (and 
may be cancelled) and action/criminal proceedings as deemed fit may also be initiated. 
 
40. Declaration to be submitted by the Candidate at the time of submitting of Application Form: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
I declare that I have filled out this online application form after carefully reading the Information Bulletin 
and fully understanding the provisions and procedures mentioned in it. I confirm that all the particulars and 
information provided by me in this form is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I 
understand that my result may be withheld and/or my candidature may be cancelled if any  information 
provided by me in this application is found to be false, during any stage of examination,  even including 
post exam/admission stage. I agree to follow these terms and conditions, along with those mentioned in 
the Information Bulletin, Public Notices, and Advisories issued by NTA for NEET (UG) -2026 from time to 
time. 
 

--- PAGE 17 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Under no circumstances, candidates will be allowed to fill more than one Application Form. Therefore, please 
take utmost care while filling up the particulars. 
Strict action will be taken, even at a later stage, against such candidates who have filled more than one 
Application Form and will be treated as Unfair means (UFM). 
In case, it is found at any time in the future that the Candidate has used/uploaded the photograph, signature, 
and certificate(s) of someone else in his/ her Application Form/Admit Card or he/she has tampered his/her 
Admit Card/Result/Scorecard, these acts  of the candidate shall be treated under Unfair Means (UFM) 
Practices and actions taken as detailed under the provisions of the Information Bulletin relating to Unfair 
Means Practices. 
If during any stage of examination, any doubt arises that a candidate has filled in multiple forms or 
impersonated or not provided genuine information or given fake or false information or the likes such a 
candidate can be asked to give additional proof of his identity at any point of time.  
If at any stage, including after declaration of result, it is found that the candidate has submitted duplicate 
forms or has been involved in any form of impersonation or fabricated facts, such candidate shall be liable 
for severe penalty including being de barred from taking the NTA examination for a period of three years. 
Such candidates shall also be liable for suitable criminal action under relevant laws of the country.  
 Application/Candidature of candidates submitting false and fabricated information (Documents uploaded 
during filling of Application Form, OMR Answer Sheet, Score Card etc.) will be rejected and such 
candidates will be further debarred from appearing in examinations conducted by NTA. Such candidates 
will also be prosecuted under applicable laws for a criminal offense and suitably penalized.  
 Choice of exam cities displayed to the candidates will be only on the basis of permanent and 
present addresses filled during Online Application Form of NEET (UG) - 2026. 
 

--- PAGE 18 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
13 
 
CHAPTER 3 
 Instructions for submission of Application Form/ Payment of FEE 
 
1. Readiness for Filling Up Application Form 
 
i. Candidate can apply for the NEET (UG) – 2026 by logging on to https://neet.nta.nic.in/. 
ii. Before submitting application form, make the following preparations: 
 
a) The information to be filled in the Online Application Form such as name of Father/Mother 
and Candidate with correct spellings  / Aadhaar Card/ Passport number/  PAN Card 
number/ Date of Birth  certificate/ Class X, XII Marks Sheet/Certificate/  Address 
proof/Mobile Number, email id, etc. may be kept ready. Candidates are advised to check 
the “Replica of Application Form” as given in  (Appendix-IX), before the actual filling 
of the Application. 
 
b) The candidates need to provide any one of the following identity details given below: 
Category of Candidates Types of permissible IDs 
Indian Nationals of all 
States 
Aadhaar Card, Indian Passport Number, 
DigiLocker, PAN Card Number or any other 
valid/current Central/State Government issued  
Photo Identity Card.  
NRIs Passport Number 
Foreign Nationals/ OCI Passport Number 
c)  To avoid the need for submitting additional documents, candidates may 
consider using their own Aadhaar Card as the mode of Identity verification 
while filling the online application form. 
 
2. APPLICATION PROCEDURE:  
Please follow the following Instructions carefully before filling the Online Application Form: 
i) Be extremely careful in filling in the Application Form. You can edit/modify any information 
before submitting each Section. Check again before pressing the ‘SUBMIT’ button. 
ii) Read instructions carefully about photographs, signature, Left and Right hands Fingers and 
Thumb impressions, and all certificates before uploading. 
iii) Mobile Number and ‘Email ID’ need to be verified through OTP. Please understand that this 
is a very important step.  
iv) Choose Question Paper ‘Medium’ carefully as it cannot be changed at a later stage. 
THREE SIMPLE STEPS TO BE FOLLOWED TO APPLY ONLINE: 
 
Candidates must carefully read the Instructions (including how to fill up Application Form online) given 
in the Information Bulletin available on the NTA Website. Candidate not complying with the Instructions 
shall be summarily disqualified. 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
14 
STEP 1: Register for Online Application Form and note down system generated Application 
Number. 
 
The candidate should supply the required details while filling the Online Application Form and is also 
required to create PASSWORD and choose Security Question and enter his/her Answer. After 
successful submission of the personal details, Application number will be generated and it will be used 
to complete the remaining Steps of the Application Form and will also be required for all future 
reference/ correspondence. It is therefore important to note down the Application Number. 
 
For subsequent logins, candidate will be able to login directly with the respective system generated 
Application Number and created Password. 
 
Important Instruction about PASSWORD: 
a. During online form filling, candidate will be required to choose PASSWORD and Security 
Question and its Answer. Candidate is advised to record/remember the password for all future 
logins. 
 
b. For subsequent logins, candidate will be able to login directly with their respective system 
generated Application Number and the chosen Password. 
 
c. Candidate is advised not to disclose or share their password with anybody. Neither NTA nor 
NIC will be responsible for violation or misuse of the password of a candidate. 
 
d. Candidate can change his/her password after login, if desired. 
 
e. Candidate is advised to log out at the end of their session so that the particulars of the 
candidate cannot be tampered or modified by any unauthorized persons 
 
The Password must be as per the following Password policy: 
a. Password must be 8 to 13 character long. 
b. Password must have at least one Upper case alphabet. 
c. Password must have at least one Lower case alphabet. 
d. Password must have at least one numeric value (0 – 9). 
e. Password must have at least one special characters e.g.!@#$%^&*-. 
 
How to reset your Password: 
The following options are available to reset Password 
a. Using Security Question & its Answer you have chosen during Form filling . 
b. Using a verification code sent via text message (SMS) to your Registered Mobile 
No./Email address 
c. Using a reset link sent via Email to your Registered Email address. 
 
STEP 2: Complete the Application Form: 
 
a. Candidate can login with the system generated Application Number and pre -created 
Password for completing the Application Form including filling up of personal details 
choosing the Question Paper medium and Examination Cities, providing the details of 
Educational Qualifications, and uploading the images and documents. 
 
b. The candidate will have to upload his/her live photograph at the time of filling of the 
application form and will also have to upload his/her Scanned Images of recent 
Passport size Photograph (taken after 01 January 2026), Signature, Left and Right 
hand Fi ngers and Thumb impression, Citizenship Certificate (if applicable),  Social 

--- PAGE 20 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
15 
Category Certificate/Applied for Application, Class X Marksheet and Class X Passing 
Certificate or equivalency certificate(s) for conversion of CGPA/Grades, in percentage 
as also duly indicating DOB and PwBD/PwD Certificate (wherever applicable). All 
uploaded images should be in PDF/JPG/JPEG format (clearly legible). 
 
c. Category: Candidates must select appropriate category in the application form, namely 
General/General-EWS/SC/ST/OBC-NCL. The OBC-NCL category should only be selected 
by candidates belonging to the Central List of OBCs available on the National Commission 
for Backward Classes (NCBC) website. Candidates of reserved categories who do not fall 
under any of the above -mentioned reserved categories, for the purpose of filling up 
NEET(UG) 2026 application form, may apply under the General category. Caste Certificate 
uploaded in the Online Application Form of NEET (UG) – 2026, necessary document (s) 
related to Caste / Community will be verified at the time of Counselling by concerned 
Central/State Counselling Authority.  
 
• Other Backward Classes (OBC-NCL)- Non-Creamy Layer as per the Central List 
of Other Backward Classes available on National Commission for Backward Classes 
(NCBC), Government of India website (www.ncbc.nic.in). Thus, the candidates 
falling in this list may mention OBC-NCL in the Category Column.  
 
• Economically Weaker Section (EWS) - As per the OM No. 20013/01/2018 -BC-II 
dated January 17, 2019, issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment 
and the OM No. 12 -4/2019-U1 dated 17.01.2019 as well as the Letters No 35 -
2/2019-T.S.I dated 21.01.2019, 01.02.2019, 04.02.2019, and 15. 02.2019 of the 
MHRD Department of Higher Education (now known as Ministry of Education) 
regarding the implementation of reservation for Economically Weaker Sections 
(EWS) for admission in Central Educational Institutions. 
 
• Nationality: Indian Nationals, Non -Resident Indians (NRIs), Overseas Citizens of 
India (OCI) & Foreign Nationals are eligible to appear in NEET (UG) - 2026. 
 
• Choice of Examination Cities: The candidate should select any three cities of their 
choice for examination of NEET (UG) - 2026 given in Appendix-V. Allotment of 
Centre is made by computer and there is no human intervention.  
• Medium of Question Paper:  
 
➢ Candidates opting for English would be provided Test Booklet in English 
only. 
➢ Candidates opting for Hindi/Regional Language would be provided 
Bilingual Test Booklet i.e. English + Hindi/Regional Language. In case of 
any ambiguity in the translation of any of the questions, its English 
version shall be treated as final. 
 
• Academic Details (Class 10  and 12): The candidate has to fill in the complete 
academic details of the 10 and 12/Qualifying Examination, wherever required. 
Candidates who are already passed should fill Code [02 to 07] against the column 
provided for Qualifying Examination. Candidates appearing in Class 12 in 2026 should 
select a qualifying code as 01. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
16 
 
d. Upload Scanned Images (Clearly legible) of Candidate’s Photograph, Signature, Left and 
Right Hands Fingers and Thumb impressions and Documents (as applicable) as per 
following specifications: 
 
i. The recent passport size photograph should be either in colour or black & white with 
80% face (without mask) visible including ears against white background. 80% area  
of the image should be candidate’s face. Photograph should be in JPG/JPEG format 
(clearly legible) between 10 kb to 200 kb. 
ii. Signature file should be in JPG/JPEG format between 10 kb to 100 kb 
iii. Left and Right Hands Fingers and Thumb impressions in JPG/JPEG format between 
10 kb to 200 kb 
iv. Scanned copy of Category Certificate (if applicable) should be in pdf format between 
50 kb to 300 kb. 
v. Scanned copy of Class- X or Equivalent Certificate should be in pdf format between 
50 kb to 300 kb. 
vi. Scanned copy of Class-X or Equivalent Marks-sheet should be in pdf format between 
50 kb to 300 kb 
vii. If Class -X or Equivalent Marks are in CGPA, then scanned copy of Conversion / 
Equivalent Certificate should be in pdf format between 50 kb to 300 kb. 
viii. Scanned copy of Identity Proof (for those candidates who will verify their identities 
through methods other than Aadhaar or Digi Locker) should be in format JPG/JPEG 
between 10 kb to 200 kb. 
ix.  Scanned copy of PwD/PwBD/UDID certificate (if applicable) should be in pdf format 
between 50 kb to 300 kb. 
x. Scanned copy of Address Proof (Present and Permanent) should be in pdf format 
between 50 kb to 300 kb.  
xi. Scanned copy of NRI / OCI/ Foreigner Certificate/ Documentary Proof (for candidates 
with nationality other than Indian) should be in pdf format between 50 kb to 300 kb.  
xii. The size of the scanned signature of scribe should be between 10 kb to 100 kb (clearly 
legible), wherever applicable,  
xiii. The size of the scanned qualification certificate of scribe should be between 50 kb to 
300 kb (clearly legible), wherever applicable, 
xiv. The size of the scanned undertaking for using your own scribe should be between 50 
kb to 300 kb (clearly legible), wherever applicable. 
xv. The size of the scanned Identity Proof should be between 50 kb to 300 kb (clearly 
legible). 
xvi. The size of the scanned Certificate of Physical limitation to write, wherever applicable 
should be between 50 kb to 300 kb (clearly legible). 
[Note: Upload the correct photograph, signature, Left and Right Hands Fingers and Thumb 
impressions as the facility for correction will not be given]. 
xvii. The candidate will have to upload his/her live photograph at the time of filling of the 
application form. For capturing Live Photograph, candidates should switch on their 
camera or connect their webcam to the device used for filling the Application Form. If 
your device does not support a webcam, QR code on the right side of the Application 
Form can be scanned by the candidate using a mobile device/tablet etc. Candidates 

--- PAGE 22 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
17 
should ensure there is a light-colored background with proper lighting, and 80% face 
visibility (including ears, without a mask). 
xviii. The Live Photograph will be matched with the photograph as per Aadhaar database. 
In some cases, if the live photographs captured by the candidates during the 
application process does not match with the photographs as per records available 
with UIDAI, and/o r the candidates who are using mode of identity verification other 
than Aadhaar, such  candidates are required to  verify their identity by uploading a 
signed and attested certificate, along with a recent photograph duly certified by their 
School/College Principal or Headmaster/obtain attestation from a Class -I Gazetted 
Officer, such as Tehsildar, Revenue Officer, SDM, DM / Class-I Gazetted Officer of the 
Indian Embassy (for NRI candidates) as per Annexure-VI. 
 
Candidate’s Photograph: to be uploaded in JPG/JPEG format 
 
Note: Same Passport size is to be used for uploading with Online Application Form and for 
pasting on Attendance Sheet at the Examination Centre / Counselling / Admission. 
Candidates are reminded to keep 6 to 8 passport size and 4 to 6 Post Card size (4”X6”) colour 
photographs with white background. 
 
• Spectacles are allowed only if being used regularly.  
• Polaroid and Computer-generated photos are not acceptable.  
• Applications not complying with these instructions or with unclear photographs are liable 
to be rejected.  
• Application without photographs shall be rejected.  
• The photographs need not be attested. Candidates are advised to keep 6 to 8 passport 
size and 4 to 6 Post Card size (4”X6”) colour photographs with white backgrounds.  
• Candidates may note that if the photographs uploaded are found to be fabricated i.e. 
de-shaped or seem to be hand -made or computer made, the application of the 
candidate will be rejected and the same would be considered as using Unfair Means 
and the candidate would be dealt with accordingly. 
• In case someone else’s photographs have been uploaded, the candidature shall 
be cancelled and the case will be considered as an Unfair Means Case. Criminal 
action as per laws of the land shall also be initiated. 
 
 
Candidate’s Signature: to be uploaded in JPG/ JPEG format 
 
Candidate’s Left and Right hand Fingers and Thumb impressions: to be uploaded in JPG 
/ JPEG format 
 
• The candidate should put Left and Right hand Fingers and Thumb impressions. 
• File size must be between 50 kb to 300 kb. 
 
Further, unclear Left and Right hand fingers and thumb Impressions in Online Application Forms 
will also be rejected. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
18 
STEP 3 : Fee Payment : 
The candidate has to select Debit card/Credit card/UPI/Net Banking option to pay the application fee 
and follow the online instruction to complete the payment of fee. Processing charges and GST as 
applicable are chargeable to the candidate (in addition to the examination fee) by the concerned 
Bank/Payment Gateway Integrator.  
After successful payment, candidate will be able to print the Confirmation Page of the online 
Application Form. In case the Confirmation Page is not generated after payment of fee then the 
transaction is cancelled and the candidate has to approach the conc erned Bank/Payment Gateway 
(in the helpline number and e -mail given in the Information Bulletin) for refund of amount. However, 
the candidate has to make another payment/transaction, in case the Confirmation Page is not 
generated. Such cases of multiple payments (if any) will be reconciled by the NTA after the declaration 
of final result and will be refunded to the concerned candidates. 
The examination fee once deposited will not be refunded.  The fee will not be carried forward to a 
future examination. 
• Candidates must note that mere deduction of fee from the bank account is not proof of fee 
payment. The payment should be supported by an updated fee payment and generation of 
the Confirmation Page.  The generation of the Confirmation page is proof of successful 
submission of the Application Form. If Confirmation Page has not been generated, this means 
that Application Form has not been submitted successfully. 
• Online Transaction Password (OTP) generated on the NEET (UG) - 2026 website while 
registering/submitting the form will be valid for 10 minutes only. After the lapse of this period, 
candidates need to click on the link “RESEND OTP” to generate a new OTP.   
 
Note: In case, the fee payment status is not ‘OK’ or ‘Success’ the candidates are advised: 
 
• If the fee is paid through a credit/debit card and the status is not OK or Success, it means the 
transaction is cancelled. Therefore, such candidates have to pay the fee once again and ensure 
the OK or Success fee status. 
• For a cancelled transaction, the amount deducted (if any) in the process of a failed transaction, 
may automatically be refunded to the concerned Candidate through the same Bank / Payment 
Gateway / Payment mode through which the transaction was made.  
• In case the Confirmation Page is not generated after payment of the prescribed Fee, then the 
candidate should approach the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway integrator (in the helpline 
number and email given in Appendix-VIII of the Information Bulletin), for  ensuring the 
successful payment.  
• In spite of the above, if a successful transaction is not reflected on the Portal, the candidate 
may contact NTA Helpline. If the payment issue is still not resolved, the candidate may pay a 
second time.  
     However, any duplicate payment received from the candidate by NTA in the course of said 
transactions will be refunded through the same payment mode through which the duplicate 
payment is received, after declaration of result and then the fee reconciliation by NTA. 
 
 
The final submission of the Online Application Form will remain incomplete if Step 3 or 
Payment Process is not complete. Such forms will stand rejected and no correspondence 
on this account will be entertained. 
 

--- PAGE 24 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
19 
Download, save and print sufficient number of hard copies of the Confirmation Page of the 
Application Form (which would be downloadable only after successful remittance of fee) for 
future references. 
All 3 Steps can be done together or at separate timings. The submission of the application 
of a candidate will be considered successful and his/her candidature would be confirmed 
only on the successful transaction/receipt of the prescribed application fee. 
Once finally submitted, particulars in certain specific fields may be changed only 
during the stipulated correction window period. After that, no communication in this 
regard would be entertained.  
 
3. CHECK LIST FOR FILLING THE ONLINE APPLICATION FORM 
The candidates are advised to ensure the following points before submitting the Online Application 
Forms: 
(i) Whether they fulfill the prescribed eligibility conditions for the Test  
(ii) That they have selected their gender viz. Male/Female/Third Gender correctly.  
(iii) That they have selected their category viz General/General-EWS/OBC-NCL (Non-
Creamy Layer)/SC/ST correctly.  
(iv) That the Person with Benchmark Disability candidate has filled the relevant 
column in the Online Application Form correctly. Only PwBD candidates with 
Benchmark disabilities have to fill this column and the others have to leave it blank. 
 
(v) Whether they have kept a Printout of Application Form (Confirmation Page) for their 
own record.  
  
NOTE:  
a) For PwD/PwBD candidates, the details of the UDID Card as uploaded will be verified from UDID 
portal of the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DePwD). Those who do 
not have UDID Card should upload Disability Certificate in the proper format and the same may 
be verified by NTA with the issuing authority.  
b) For PwD/PwBD candidates, if they use the service of scribe, the Aadhaar details of the scribe 
may be provided in the Application Form to avoid submission of additional documents at a later 
stage. 
c) The Candidate has to upload only his/her own latest (taken on/after 01 January 2026)  
photograph, signature, Left and Right hand Fingers and Thumb impression, and certificate(s) 
as mentioned above (and not of anybody else) in a correct/proper manner, as the facility for 
correction will not be given in future . In case, it is found at any time in the future that the 
Candidate has used/uploaded the photograph, Left and Right hand Fingers and Thumb 
impression, signature, and certificate(s) of someone else in his/her Application Form/Admit 
Card, or he/she has tampered his/her Admit Card/Result/S corecard, these acts of the 
candidate shall be treated under Unfair Means (UFM) Practices and action(s) will be taken 
as detailed under the provisions of the Information Bulletin relating to Unfair Means 
Practices. 
 
d) To streamline the process for NEET (UG) -2026, all eligible aspirants have been advised to 
ensure that the following documents are updated well in advance before applying for NEET 
(UG)-2026 in order to avoid any discrepancies, grievances or rejection at a later stage: 


--- PAGE 25 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
20 
 
i. Aadhaar Card - All the candidates appearing for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test 
(NEET) UG 2026 are advised to ensure that their Aadhaar Card is accurate, valid and duly 
updated in all respects. The Aadhaar details must correctly reflect the following information 
of the Candidate: 
 
a) Name, b) Date of Birth, c) Gender, d) Photograph, e) Address, f) Biometric    
Information (wherever applicable) 
 
Candidates requiring any correction or update in their Aadhaar details may do so by 
following the UIDAI guidelines. For Aadhaar update related services, candidates may visit 
the official UIDAI website: https://uidai.gov.in/ or https://myaadhaar.uidai.gov.in. 
ii. UDID Card (for Persons with Disabilities)- Candidates have been advised that UDID Card 
is valid, updated and renewed, as required. 
 
iii. Permanent UDID is to be produced at the time of counselling for medical/physical 
assessment at designated centres for claiming the category.  
 
iv. Category Certificate - Candidates have been advised that Category certificate 
(EWS/SC/ST/OBC-NCL) is updated and valid. 
 
NTA reserves the right for verification of the candidate’s details and photographs. 
Candidates are advised to update their details on Aadhaar Card with their recent 
Photograph, Name, Date of Birth, Gender, Address etc. (for updation in Aadhaar, please 
follow UIDAI Guidelines). 
 
Usage of Data and Information: NTA/Government of India can use the data provided by 
the End Users (test taker in this case) for internal purpose(s) including training, research 
and development, analysis, and other permissible purposes (s). 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 26 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
21 
CHAPTER 4 
 EXAMINATION SCHEME 
1.  SYLLABUS OF THE TEST 
 NMC (National Medical Commission) has notified the syllabus of NEET (UG) - 2026. The 
detailed syllabus (Appendix-III) is available on the official Website(s) of NTA and NMC 
(https://www.nmc.org.in) 
2.  PATTERN OF THE TEST 
The Test pattern of NEET (UG) - 2026 comprises Physics, Chemistry, Biology (Botany & 
Zoology). The question paper will consist of 180 compulsory questions which must be 
attempted by the candidates in 180 minutes.  
 
(As per Letter CDN-20011/289/2024-Cordination-NMC dated 05.12.2025) 
 
The pattern for the NEET (UG) - 2026 is as under : 
 
Subject Type of Questions Duration 
Number of 
Questions Marks 
Physics 
MCQ 
(Multiple Choice Questions) 
with four options and single 
correct answer/best option. 
02:00 PM to 
05:00 PM 
45 180 
Chemistry 45 180 
Biology 
(Botany & 
Zoology) 90 360 
Total 180 720 
 
3 IMPORTANT POINTS TO NOTE: 
 
To answer a question, the candidate needs to choose one option corresponding to the correct 
answer or the most appropriate answer.  Marking will be done as per following criteria : 
 
(i) Correct answer or the most appropriate answer: Four marks (+4) 
(ii) Any incorrect option marked will be given minus one mark (-1).  
(iii) Unanswered: No mark (0). 
 
       While every effort will be made to ensure that each question has one unique answer, in case, it 
is found that a question has more than one option, it will be dealt in following manner: 
 
(i) If more than one option is found to be correct then Four marks (+4) will be awarded 
to only those who have marked any of the correct options.  
(ii) If all options are found to be correct then Four marks (+4) will be awarded to all 
those who have attempted the question.  
(iii) If none of the options is found correct or a Question is found to be wrong or 
a Question is dropped then all candidates who have appeared will be given 
four marks (+4) irrespective of the fact whether the question has been 
attempted or not attempted by the candidate. 
 

--- PAGE 27 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
22 
 
4 MODE OF EXAMINATION 
NEET (UG) – 2026 will be a single day/ single shift  exam in PEN and PAPER mode as was 
conducted in 2025. (As per Letter CDN-20011/289/2024-Cordination-NMC dated 05.12.2025) 
 
5. DURATION OF TEST 
The duration of the test would be three (03) hours. Compensatory time of one hour for 
examination of three hours (03:00 hrs)  duration for PwD/PwBD candidate (having a physical 
limitation to write) will be given  whether such candidate uses the facility of Scribe or not.  
 
6.  MEDIUM OF THE QUESTION PAPERS 
i. NEET (UG) -2026 is being conducted in English, Hindi, Assamese, B engali, 
Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu  
mediums. 
 
Candidates can opt for a Question Paper in any one of the following 13 mediums: 
 
ii.  Option of medium of Question Paper should be carefully chosen while filling 
in the Application Form. The option once chosen cannot be changed. 
iii. Candidates opting for English would be provided Test Booklet in English 
medium only. 
iv. Candidates opting for Hindi would be provided with a Bilingual Test Booklet in 
English and Hindi medium. 
v. Candidates opting for Regional Languages would be provided Test Booklet in 
English + selected Regional Language medium. (For Example: If a candidate 
opted Tamil (out of 13 languages), the Test Booklet would be provided in English 
+ Tamil). 
vi. In case of any ambiguity in the translation of a question in the test , its English 
version shall be treated as final and the decision of NTA shall be final in this 
regard. 
vii. For the correctness of the questions in all the question papers, the English version 
will be taken as final. 
viii. Candidates qualifying for NEET (UG) – 2026 would be eligible for All India Quota 
and other quotas under the State Governments/Institutes, irrespective of the 
medium of the examination, subject to other eligibility criteria.  
  
Assamese Bengali English Gujarati Hindi Kannada Malayalam 
Marathi Odia Punjabi Tamil Telugu Urdu 

--- PAGE 28 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
23 
 
ix. Option of Question Paper medium will be available as per the following table only: 
 
The option of medium for Question Paper should be exercised carefully while filling 
up the Application Form online. Option of medium once chose n cannot be changed 
at a later stage.  
 
S. 
No. 
Medium of 
Question Paper Examination Centres 
1.  English  Examination Centers in India and Outside India 
2.  English and 
Hindi 
Examination Centres in India 
3.  English, Hindi 
and Assamese 
Examination Centres in Assam  
4.  English, Hindi 
and Bengali 
Examination Centres in West Bengal, Tripura, and 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands 
5.  English, Hindi and 
Gujarati 
Examination Centres in Gujarat, Daman & Diu, Dadra & 
Nagar Haveli 
6.  English, Hindi 
and Kannada 
Examination Centres in Karnataka 
7.  English, Hindi 
and Malayalam 
Examination Centres in Kerala and Lakshadweep 
8.  English, Hindi 
and Marathi 
Examination Centres in Maharashtra 
9.  English, Hindi 
and Odia 
Examination Centres in Odisha 
10.  English, Hindi 
and Punjabi 
Examination Centres in Punjab, Chandigarh, and 
Delhi/New Delhi (including Faridabad, Ghaziabad, 
Gurugram, Noida/Greater Noida) 
11.  English, Hindi 
and Tamil 
Examination Centres in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands 
12.  English, Hindi 
and Telugu 
Examination Centres in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana 
13.  English, Hindi 
and Urdu 
Examination Centres in India 

--- PAGE 29 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
24 
CHAPTER 5 
CITIES FOR EXAM CENTRES OF NEET (UG) - 2026 EXAMINATION 
i. A list of Cities along with city codes where the NEET (UG) - 2026 will be conducted is 
given in Appendix-V. 
 
ii. While filling up the Online Application Form, candidates should select three convenient 
Cities from Appendix-V as their Choice of Cities for the exam Centre in order of their 
priority, except in certain cases where only one/two option may be available based on 
the address criteria.  
 
iii. Choice of Centre Cities will be limited to the State of Permanent Address or State of 
Present Address only. 
 
iv. For convenience, the candidates may select their own city or neighboring cities 
available in their State of permanent address/present address  only and  avoid 
distant/far away cities. NTA will not be responsible for any inconvenience due to the 
incorrect selection of cities by the candidates. 
 
v. Center/City allocation will depend upon administrative/ technical/ logistical feasibility. 
Candidates may have to travel to other Cities. The Examining Body reserves the right 
to allot any City/Centre to the Candidate. 
 
vi. The information about the examination centers will be given in the respective Admit 
Card. However, NTA reserves the right to cancel any of the Examination Centers and 
Examination City and/ or add some other Centers and City, at its discretion, depending 
upon the response, administrative feasibility, etc.  
 
vii. NTA also reserves the right to allot any centre to the candidate. No request for change 
of centre shall be entertained.  
 
viii. Candidate will appear for the examination at an Examination Centre at her / his own 
risk and expenses and NTA will not be responsible for any injury or losses etc. of any 
nature. 
 
ix. No TA/DA will be paid to any candidate including SC/ST/ PwBD/PWD candidates for 
appearing in the examination. 
 
x. In case, the number of candidates opting for a city is less than a certain minimum, the 
NTA reserves the right to merge one, two, or more cities.  
 
xi. In case, the number of candidates opting for a city as centre with a regional language 
is less than a certain minimum, candidates may be allotted Centre in another city 
irrespective of the city opted by the candidates for appearing in the examination.    
 
xii. Allotment of Centres will be done mostly in one of the preferred cities of the candidates 
and there will be no human intervention. 
 
Though every effort will be made to allot a Centre in one of the cities selected by 
the candidate, the NTA reserves the right to allot a centre in a city other than the 
candidate’s choice.  
Note: All effort will be made by NTA to consider the comfort and convenience of 
candidates, including PwBD/PwD Candidates while allotting Centres. 
 
  

--- PAGE 30 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
25 
CHAPTER 6 
ELIGIBILITY AND QUALIFICATIONS FOR MBBS AND BDS COURSE 
1. ELIGIBILITY TO APPEAR IN NEET (UG) – 2026 
Eligibility for appearing in NEET (UG), as per related Regulations of NMC and DCI are as 
follows: - 
 
As per the Graduate Medical Education Regulation-2023 (Amendment) dated 16.06.2023, 
following amendment with respect to minimum age has been notified in GMER-2023, 
which mandates that: 
i) He/She has completed the age of 17 years as on or before 31st December of the year 
that the candidate shall be appearing for NEET-UG examination. 
ii) Accordingly, the lower age limit shall be as under:    
 
For Candidates of General (UR)/General-EWS born on or before 
31.12.2009 For Candidates of SC/ST/OBC-NCL/PwBD/PwD 
Category 
 
iii) Upper age limit: (As per Letter No. U-11022/2/2022-UGMEB, dated 09 March 2022 
received from National Medical Commission (NMC), Under Graduate Medical 
Education Board (UGMEB) regarding the upper age limit) there is no upper age 
limit. 
(As per Letter No. U-14023/19/NEET(UG Exam)/UGMEB dated 13.01.2026)  
iv)  Indian Citizens/ Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) intending to pursue Undergraduate 
Medical Courses in a foreign Medical/ Dental Institute also need to qualify for NEET 
(UG). 
2. CRITERIA FOR NRI / OCI / FOREIGN NATIONALS 
i) Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), Overseas Citizens of India (OCI), and Foreign Nationals 
are eligible for admission in Medical /Dental Colleges subject to rules and regulations 
framed by the respective State Governments, Institutions, and the Government of 
India, as the case may be. The NRI and OCI Applicants/Candidates have to upload a 
Certificate from the concerned Indian Diplomatic Mission in the country of their 
residence in support of their claim as an NRI/OCI Candidate, along with their online 
Application Form for NEET (UG) - 2026 and retain the original of such document for 
producing it at the time of Counselling / Admission to the Courses covered under NEET 
(UG). Similarly, a foreign applicant for NEET (UG) 2026 shall also upload Documentary 
Proof (e.g. relevant pages of a valid passport or a Certificate from the Competent 
Authority in the country of his/her Nationality regarding his/her citizenship status) in 
support of his/her Nationality, along with online Application Form. The format of 
Embassy Certif icate and Citizenship Certificate or any Documentary proof of 
Citizenship are given in Appendix –  VI and Appendix – VII. Foreign nationals may 
confirm their eligibility from the competent state authorities and counselling authorities, 
as the case may be.  

--- PAGE 31 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
26 
ii) Eligibility of OCI cardholders for NEET (UG):  
a) Indian Nationals, Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), Overseas Citizen of India (OCI), 
Persons with Indian Origin and Foreign Nationals are eligible for admission in 
Medical/Dental/Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani/ Homoeopathy Colleges subject to the 
rules and regulations framed by respective State Governments, Institutions and 
The Government of India, as the case may be. 
b) In compliance of the Hon’ble Supreme Court Order dated 03.02.2023 in WP No. 
891 of 2021, OCI will be entitled to the rights and privileges which had been 
conferred on them earlier to the notification dated 04.03.2021. 
3. QUALIFICATIONS AND QUALIFYING EXAMINATION CODES 
As per approval conveyed by the NMC (As per  Letter CDN-20011/289/2024-Cordination-NMC dated 
05.12.2025 and Letter U -14023/19/NEET(UG Exam)/UGMEB dated 13.01.2026 and Email vide 
NMC UGSection dated 28.01.2026) 
To be eligible for NEET (UG) – 2026, candidates need to refer to the following table for 
qualifying examination criteria. 
CODE: 01  
 
A candidate who is appearing in the qualifying examination, whose 12th result 
is awaited, may apply and appear in the test but he/she shall not be eligible 
for admission to the Undergraduate Medical Courses  if he/she does not 
pass the qualifying examination at the time of first round of Counseling.  
 
Candidates who have undertaken study of the requisite subjects i.e. Physics, 
Chemistry, Biology / Biotechnology along with English even as additional 
subjects after passing Class 12th from duly recognized boards by the 
concerned Govt. such candidates shall be permitted to appear in NEET -UG 
Test and resultantly also be eligible for grant of Eligibility Certificate as per 
Public Notice dated 22.11.2023 .  However, their candidature will be 
considered only if they provide documentary evidence of having passed the 
qualifying Examination with the required subjects. 
  
                                                                              OR 
CODE: 02  
 
The Higher/Senior Secondary Examination or the Indian School Certificate 
Examination which is equivalent to class 12 Higher/Senior Secondary 
Examination after a period of 12 years of study, the study of the requisite 
subjects i.e. Physics, Chemistry, Biology / Biotechnology along with English 
even as additional subjects after passing Class 12th from duly recognized 
boards by the concerned Govt. (which shall include practical tests in these 
subjects) and Mathematics or any other elective subject with English at a level 
not less than the core course for English as prescribed by the National Council 
of Educational Research and Training after the int roduction of the 10+2+3 
educational structure as recommended by the National Committee on 
Education.  
 
Public Notice dated 22.11.2023 (Para -7), consequent to the introduction of 
NEP and various legal issues, further adds that:  The National Medical 
Commission in its meeting held on 14.06.2023 after detailed deliberations 
while taking into consideration the NEP, which permits great extent of 
flexibility in the study of various subjects in Class 12th, decided that the 
previous approach of the erstwhile Medical Council of India needs to be 

--- PAGE 32 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
27 
revisited by permitting candidates to undertaken study of the requisite 
subjects (Physics, Chemistry, Biology / Biotechnology alongwith English) 
even as additional subjects after passing Class 12 th from boards duly 
recognized  by the concerned Govt. Such candidates shall be permitted to 
appear in NEET-UG Test and resultantly also be eligible for grant of Eligibility 
Certificate. 
 
If the institute has to consider an examination of an Indian University or of a 
foreign/university to be equivalent to the Class 12 under intermediate science 
examination, the candidates shall have to produce a certificate from the 
concerned Indian Univers ity/Association of Indian Universities to the effect 
that the examination passed by him/her is considered to be equivalent to the 
class 12 under intermediate science examination. 
                                                                          OR 
CODE: 03  
 
The Intermediate/Pre -degree Examination in Science of an Indian 
University/Board or other recognized examining body with Physics, 
Chemistry, Biology /Biotechnology (which shall include practical test in 
these subjects) and also English as a compulsory subject. 
                                                                         OR 
CODE: 04  
 
The Pre-professional/Pre-medical Examination with Physics, Chemistry, 
Biology/Biotechnology, and English after passing either the Higher 
Secondary Examination or the Pre -University or an equivalent 
examination. The Pre-professional/Pre-medical examination shall include 
practical tests in these subjects and also English as a compulsory subject. 
                                                                        OR 
CODE: 05  
 
The first year of the three years’ degree course of a recognized University 
with Physics, Chemistry, and Biology/Biotechnology including practical 
tests in these subjects provided the examination is a University 
Examination and the candidate has passed the  earlier qualifying 
examination with Physics, Chemistry, Biology/ Biotechnology with English 
at a level not less than a core course. 
                                                                       OR 
CODE: 06  
 
B.Sc. Examination of an Indian University provided that he/she has 
passed the B.Sc. Examination with not less than two of the subjects 
Physics, Chemistry, Biology (Botany, Zoology)/Biotechnology and further 
that he/ she has passed the earlier qualifying ex amination with Physics, 
Chemistry, Biology, and English.  
                                                                       OR 
CODE: 07 
 
Any other examination which in scope and standard (Last 02 years of 
10+2 Study comprising of Physics, Chemistry and Biology/Biotechnology; 
which shall include practical test in these subjects) is found to be 
equivalent to the Intermediate Science Examinati on of an Indian 
University/Board, taking Physics, Chemistry and Biology/Biotechnology 
including practical tests in each of these subjects and English. 
 
  

--- PAGE 33 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
28 
 
 
NOTE: Due to the COVID outbreak, no examinations were conducted for 2021 batch of 
Class 10 (Tamil Nadu State Board). Accordingly, no marks were given in the marksheet 
and ‘pass’ is printed in all subjects with a disclaimer – “As per G.O. (Ms) No. 48, School 
Education (G.E.) department dated: 25.02.2021, all candidates who studied SSLC in the 
academic year 2020-21 are declared passed.”  
While filling up of the online Application Form of NEET (UG) - 2026, when the 
candidate selects ‘Passing year’ as 2021 with ‘School Board’ as Tamil Nadu State 
Board of School Examination (Sec.), the Result Mode field will be disabled and the 
associated fie lds for Marks/CGPA will be invisible for Tamil Nadu State Board 
candidates who have passed their Class 10 in year 2021 
  
Note: 
• The candidates who have studied from the Foreign/International Board should ensure 
that the qualifying examination passed by them is, in scope and standard, as explained 
in CODE: 07. 
      
  

--- PAGE 34 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
29 
CHAPTER 7 
 
COUNSELLING AND RESERVATION FOR ADMISSION TO MBBS, BAMS, BUMS, BSMS, 
BHMS, BDS AND B.SC. NURSING COURSES 
1. ADMISSION PROCEDURE 
Admissions to all seats of Undergraduate Medical / Dental Courses will be 
done through NEET (UG) - 2026.  
 
A. The following are the seats available under different quotas:  
• All India Quota Seats 
• State Government Quota Seats 
• Seats available for admission in  Central Institutions/Universities/Deemed 
Universities 
• State/Self-financed merit list /NRI Quota Seats in Private Medical / Dental 
Colleges or any Private University  
• Central Pool Quota Seats 
• All seats including NRI Quota as well as “self-financed merit list”, are in private 
unaided/aided minority / non-minority medical colleges. 
• Seats available for admission in AIIMS Institutes across India/JIPMER. 
• The Counselling for successful candidates for Seats under 15% All India Quota 
and 100% including 85% State quota seats of Central Institutions (ABVIMS & 
RML Hospital/VMMC & Safdarjung Hospital/ESIC)/ Central Universities 
(including DU/ BHU /AMU)/ AIIMS/ JI PMER and Deemed Universities, will be 
conducted by the MCC/DGHS for Undergraduate Medical / Dental Courses. 
MCC only does the registration for AFMC and forwards the data of registered 
Candidates to AFMC Authorities for the admission process. DU/BHU and other 
Universities may use the score for any other relevant courses being 
offered by them. 
B. The counselling for admission to the seats under the control of State Governments/ 
UT Administrations / State Universities/ Institutions shall be conducted by the 
designated authorities of the State Governments as per the notifications issued 
separately by the authorities concerned. 
 
C. The Result of NEET (UG) - 2026 may be utilized by other Entities of Central and 
State Governments, in accordance with their respective eligibility criteria / other 
norms /applicable regulations/guidelines/rules. The result data will also be utilized 
for B.Sc. (H) Nursing courses in accordance with their respective eligibility criteria / 
other norms /applicable regulations/guidelines/ rules. The NEET (UG) - 2026 data 
will also be used for admissions to BVSc & AH courses under the 15% quota of VCI 
in recognized Veterinary Colleges. However, the Council has to approach the MCC 
of DGHS, MoHFW in order to obtain the said data of results. 
 
Note: Military Nursing Service (M NS) aspirants seeking admission to B.Sc 
Nursing Course being conducted at Armed Forces Medical Service Hospitals 

--- PAGE 35 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
30 
for the year 2026 are required to qualify NEET. The NEET score will be used for 
shortlisting for selection to the four year B.Sc Nursing course. 
 
 
D. During counselling, the eligibility criteria, self -declarations, all the uploaded 
documents, etc. of the eligible candidates shall be verified as per norms specified 
by the respective authorities and/or Medical / Dental Colleges. 
 
E. AACCC (All-India Ayush Central Counselling Committee) shall be the counselling 
authority for AIQ with respect to BAMS, BUMS and BSMS courses under NCISM. 
AACCC shall also be the Counselling Authority for AIQ with respect to BHMS under 
NCH. 
NTA does not have any responsibility towards the correctness/genuinity of 
the uploaded information/documents during the application process. 
 
F. An All India Merit List of the qualified candidates shall be prepared based on All India 
Rank in the Merit List of the NEET (UG) - 2026 and candidates shall be admitted to 
Undergraduate Medical Courses from the said list only, with existing reservation policy. 
NTA will only provide All India Rank to candidates while counselling authorities will 
invite applications for Counselling and a merit list shall be drawn based on All India 
Rank by the counselling authorities. Admission to Undergraduate Medical Courses 
within the respective categories shall be based solely on All India Rank as per merit 
list of NEET (UG) - 2026. 
 
2. Admission in State Medical Colleges / Universities / Institutions / private medical colleges 
for seats other than 15% All India Quota by respective State/UT counselling authorities: 
 
i. Admission under State Quota Seats shall be subject to reservation policy and 
eligibility criteria prevailing in the State/Union Territory as notified by the respective 
State/Union Territory from time to time. 
ii. The reservation of the seats in medical colleges for respective categories shall be 
as per applicable laws prevailing in the State/Union Territory concerned. 
iii. Admission to Undergraduate Medical Courses in Private Medical Colleges shall 
be subject to policies of the Government of India/State/Union Territory. 
 
3.  Admission to 15% All India Quota/ AIIMS / JIPMER / Central Universities (DU/BHU/AMU) / 
AFMC / GGSIPU / ESIC Medical Colleges / Deemed Universities by MCC of DGHS : 
 
i. Counselling for admission to MBBS / BDS, etc. Courses in AIIMS / JIPMER / Central 
Universities [(including Medical Colleges under DU and Central Medical/Dental 
Colleges under Guru Govind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), BHU 
Medical College, AMU Medical College], ESIC Medical Colleges, PGIMER and 
Deemed Universities will be conducted by DGHS and reservation policy will be as 
per rules/regulations applicable to such Univer sities / Institutions. Candidates 
aspiring for admission to MBBS / BDS Courses in such Universities/ Institutions 
based upon their All India Rank (AIR) in NEET (UG) - 2026, shall have to register 
on the MCC website after the declaration of NEET (UG) - 2026 Result. The 

--- PAGE 36 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
31 
Candidate will have to register on the MCC Website. (https://mcc.nic.in/). The list of 
registered candidates will be forwarded to AFMC authorities for conducting 
counselling at their end. 
 
ii. Admission to AFMC, Pune shall be subject to the norms prescribed by the 
Directorate General of Armed Forces Medical Services, Ministry of Defence, 
Government of India. Candidates seeking info with respect to admission into AFMC, 
Pune may visit the official website of the Armed Forces Medical Services i.e., 
www.afmcdg1d.gov.in.The shortlisted candidates  will be required to appear for a 
second-stage Screening Test conducted by AFMC. Candidates are advised to 
contact AFMC for further and exact details. MCC of DGHS will do only the 
registration part of the counselling. Further, allotment process will be done by AFMC 
authorities. 
 
iii. Admission to Medical Colleges under Central Universities (DU / BHU /AMU) /ESIC 
Medical Colleges /AFMC, shall be as per the provisions of the Statutory Regulations 
of NMC/ DCI, Deemed Universities relevant judgments of the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court of India, and the procedure prescribed by the Medical Counselling Committee 
(MCC) under the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). 
 
iv. Further, the common counselling for admission to MBBS /BDS Courses in the 
concerned INIs shall be conducted by the DGHS as per the time schedule specified 
in the relevant Graduate Medical Education Regulation (1997) and Graduate 
Medical Education Regulation (2023) as amended from time to time. 
 
v. For all institutions, wherein Counselling is conducted by MCC under the DGHS, the 
candidates may refer to the Counselling scheme uploaded on the MCC website, so 
as to determine their eligibility to appear in  Counselling for subsequent rounds, 
including in respect of ineligibility on account of allotment of seats in the previous 
rounds of Counselling in terms of Regulation 5A(4) of the Regulations on Graduate 
Medical Education, 1997 which provides for preventing seat blocking in common  
Counselling for admission to  MBBS course. 
 
vi. For all institutions, wherein Counselling is conducted by the State/Union Govt. or 
its designated authority, the candidates may refer to the Counselling Notifications 
issued by the State/Union Govt. or its designated authority, so as to determine their 
eligibility to appear in Counselling for subsequent rounds, including in respect of 
ineligibility on account of allotment of seats in the previous rounds of Counselling 
in terms of Regulation 5A(4) of the Regulations on Graduate Medical Education, 
1997 which provides for preventing seat blocking in common Counselling for 
admission to MBBS. 
 
vii. MCC is only counselling executing body, hence, it cannot change/ edit /modify/alter 
any information (name, DoB, category, caste, contact details etc.) entered by the 
candidates at the time of online submission of application/registration form for 
Counselling under any circumstances. The data entered by the c andidate at the 
time of registration on NTA portal will be shared with MCC as  prepopulated and will 
be used for counselling purposes. 
  

--- PAGE 37 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
32 
4. RESERVATION POLICY FOR ADMISSION TO MBBS /BDS/B.SC. NURSING 
CONDUCTED BY MCC/DGHS 
1) Indian nationals belonging to certain categories are admitted under the seats 
reserved for them in accordance with the rules prescribed by the Government of 
India. The categories and the extent of reservation are as follows: 
 
➢ General category belonging to Economically Weaker Section (GEN- EWS) – 10% 
of seats in every course. The benefit of reservation will be given only to those General 
category candidates who satisfy the conditions given in the OM No. 20013/01/2018-
BCII dated 17 January 2019,  issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and 
Empowerment. The criteria for GEN-EWS will be as per the prevailing norms and/or 
notifications of the Government of India. 
 
➢ Other Backward Classes belonging to the Non -Creamy Layer (OBC- NCL) – 27% of 
seats in every course. 
 
i. OBC-NCL should be listed in the current updated central list of OBC -NCL 
(http://www.ncbc.nic.in). 
ii. OBC-NCL present in the State list but not covered in the central list of OBC -
NCL (as per the list in http://www.ncbc.nic.in) are NOT eligible to claim the 
reservation. 
iii. The criteria for OBC-NCL will be as per the notification of the Government of 
India. 
iv. Candidates belonging to the creamy layer of OBC are NOT entitled to 
reservation. Such candidates are treated as belonging to the general 
(GEN), i.e. unreserved category, and they will be eligible only for the 
GEN seats – the seats for which all candidates are eligible. 
➢ Scheduled Caste (SC) – 15% of seats in every course. 
➢ Scheduled Tribe (ST) – 7.5% of seats in every course. 
➢ Persons with Benchmark Disability (PwBD) – 5% seats in each of GEN, GEN -
EWS, OBC-NCL, SC, and ST category seats (Horizontal reservation). 
 
i. Candidates who want to avail the benefits of PwBD reservation in admission 
to Undergraduate Courses  will be governed as per NMC guidelines 
(Appendix-VI) and subsequent amendments from time to time. 
 
Reservation in State Quota Seats /Universities/Institutions /Private Medical 
Colleges under State Governments : In case of seats filled by the State 
Medical Colleges/Universities/Institutions /Private Medical Colleges under 
State Quota Seats, the reservation policy of the concerned State 
Government shall apply. 
 
ii. For Candidates claiming the GEN-EWS category 
Candidate should possess valid GEN-EWS certificate (who satisfy the conditions 
given in the OM No. 20013/01/2018-BC-II dated 17 January 2019,  issued by 
the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment) in consonance with the latest 

--- PAGE 38 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
33 
guidelines of the Government of India for claiming seats under GEN -EWS 
category. 
 
iii. For Candidates claiming the OBC-NCL category 
Candidate should possess valid OBC -NCL certificate in consonance with the 
latest guidelines of the Government of India for claiming seats under OBC-NCL 
category. Visit http://www.ncbc.nic.in for the latest guidelines and updates on the 
Central List of State-wise OBCs. 
 
iv. For Candidates claiming the SC or ST category 
Candidate should possess valid SC/ST certificate in consonance with the latest 
guidelines of the Government of India for claiming seats under SC/ST category. 
5.  Provisions relating to Persons with Disability (PwD)/ Persons with Benchmark Disability 
(PwBD) (For the purpose of appearing in the NEET Examination):  
i) The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016: 
 
The Gazette of India, Extraordinary Part -II Section 1, Ministry of Law And Justice 
(Legislative Department) New Delhi dated 28 December 2016 on “The Rights of Persons 
With Disabilities Act, 2016. The relevant paragraphs of the above Gazette Notification fo r 
consideration are as under: 
 
Chapter 1.  
Para 2 (r) “person with benchmark disability” means a person with not less than forty percent 
of a specified disability where specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms 
and includes a person with disability where specified disability has  been defined in 
measurable terms, as certified by the certifying authority; 
Para 2 (s) “person with disability” means a person with long term physical, mental, 
intellectual or sensory impairment which, in interaction with barriers, hinders his full and 
effective participation in society equally with others; 
Para 2 (zc) “specified disability” means the disabilities as specified in the Schedule; 
(Annexure - I). 
ii)  Office Memorandum dated 29 August 2018: 
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India, Office Memorandum No. F. No. 
34- 02/2015-DD-III dated 29 August 2018 for conducting written examination for persons 
with specified disabilities covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the RPwD Act, 2016. 
The relevant paragraphs of the above Office Memorandum for consideration are as under:-  
 
Para IV- The facility of Scribe/Reader/Lab Assistant should be allowed to any person with 
benchmark disability as defined under section 2(r) of the RPwD Act, 2016 and has limitation 
in writing including that of speed if so desired by him/her.  
 
In case of persons with benchmark disabilities in the category of blindness, locomotor 
disability (both arm affected-BA) and cerebral palsy, the facility of scribe/reader/lab assistant 
shall be given, if so desired by the person.  
 

--- PAGE 39 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
34 
In case of other category of persons with benchmark disabilities, the provision of 
scribe/reader/lab assistant can be allowed on production of a certificate to the effect that 
person concerned has physical limitation to write, and scribe is essential to wr ite 
examination on his behalf, from the Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Medical 
Superintendent of a Government health care institution as per proforma at Annexure - II.  
 
In case the candidate is allowed to bring his own scribe, the qualification of the scribe should 
be one step below the qualification of the candidate taking examination. The person opting 
for own scribe should submit details of the own scribe as per proforma at Annexure-III.  
iii)  Office Memorandum dated 10 August 2022: 
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India, Office Memorandum No F. No. 
29- 6/2019-DD-III dated 10 August 2022 for conducting written examination for persons with 
specified disabilities covered under the definition of Section 2(s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but 
not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. person having less than 
40% disability and having difficulty in writing. The relevant paragraphs of the above Office 
Memorandum for consideration are as under: -  
Para 3 (b). The facility of scribe and/or compensatory time shall be granted solely to those 
having difficulty in writing subject to production of a certificate to the effect that person 
concerned has limitation to write and that scribe is essential to write examination on his/her 
behalf from the competent medical authority of a Government healthcare institution as per 
proforma at Annexure-IV.  
Para 3 (c). The medical authority for the purpose of certification as mentioned above should 
be a multi-member authority comprising the following: -  
i. Chief Medical officer/Civil Surgeon /Chief District Medical Officer, Chairperson  
ii. Orthopaedic/PMR specialist  
iii. Neurologist, if available*  
iv. Clinical Psychologist/Rehabilitation Psychologist/ Psychiatrist/Special 
Educator  
v. Occupational therapist, if available*  
vi. Any other expert based on the condition of the candidate as may be nominated 
by the Chairperson. 
(*the Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Officer may make 
full efforts for inclusion of neurologists, occupational therapist from the nearest 
District or the Medical College/Institute, if the same is not available in the District)”  
The candidate should fill up the details of scribe as per undertaking proforma at 
Annexure-V. 
iv)  Scribe and Compensatory Time 
1. The candidate should have the discretion of opting for his own scribe / reader / lab 
assistant or request the Examination Body for the same. The examining body may 
also identify the scribe / reader / lab assistant to make panels at the District / Division 
/ State level as per the requirements of the examination. In such instances the 
candidates should be allowed to meet the scribe two days before the examinations so 
that the candidates get a chance to check and verify whether the scribe is suitable or 
not.  

--- PAGE 40 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
35 
 
2. The word “extra time or additional time” that is being currently used should be changed 
to “compensatory time” and the same should not be less than 20 minutes per hour of 
examination for persons who are allowed use of scribe / reader / lab assistant. All the 
candidates with benchmark disabilities who are eligible for availing the facility of scribe 
in terms of guidelines vide para IV of Para 5.2 above may be allowed additional time 
of minimum of one hour for examination of 3 hours duration whether they use the 
facility of scribe or not. In case the duration of the examination is less than an hour, 
then the duration of additional time should be allowed on pro -rata basis. Additional 
time should not be less than 5 minutes and should be in the multiple of 5”.  
Note –  
a. Both the guidelines i.e. dated 29 August 2018 (for PwBDs) and dated 10 August 2022 
(for PwDs) have other important aspects such as allowing use of assistive devices, 
proper seating arrangement, accessibility of examination centres etc. which will be 
followed. The scribe will help the Candidate in reading the questions and/ or keying 
in the answers as per the directions of the Candidate. A scribe will NEITHER explain 
the questions NOR suggest any solution to the Candidate.  
 
b. It is to be noted that the Scribe will be provided by the National Testing Agency (NTA), 
if requested by the Candidate. If it is found at any stage that a candidate has availed 
the services of a scribe and/or availed the compensatory time but does not poss ess 
the extent of disability that warrants the use of a scribe and/or grant of compensatory 
time, the candidate will be excluded from the process of evaluation, ranking, 
counselling and admission. In case such a candidate has already been admitted to 
any Institution, the admission of the candidate will be cancelled. 
 
Physical Disability certificate / Unique Disability Identification (UDID) issued by the 
notified medical authority needs to be uploaded in the Online Application Form of 
NEET (UG) – 2026.   However, in case PwD / PwBD candidate opts for UDID then 
they need to give UDID Card Number for verification, if verified they are not asked to 
upload UDID Certificate. 
 
c. The NTA does not guarantee any change in the category or sub -category 
(PwD/PwBD status) after the submission of the Online Application Form, and in any 
case, no change will be entertained by NTA after the declaration of NTA Score for 
NEET (UG) - 2026. Therefore, the candidates are advised to fill in the category/sub-
category column very carefully.  
 
d. The extent of “specified disability” in a person shall be assessed in accordance with 
the “Guidelines for the purpose of assessing the extent of specified disability in a 
person included under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.  
 
e. Candidates must note that the benefit of reservation will be given to them subject to 
verification of documents. If it is discovered at any stage that a candidate has used a 
false/fake/incorrect document or has furnished false, incorrect or incomplete 
information, in order to avail the benefit of reservation, then such a candidate shall 

--- PAGE 41 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
36 
be excluded from all admission processes. In case such a candidate has already 
been given admission, the admission shall stand cancelled.  
 
Notes: 
1. The benefit of reservation for admission shall be given only to those 
classes/castes/tribes which are in the respective Central List published by the 
Government of India from time to time.  
 
2. The benefit of reservation will be given only to those castes and tribes that are 
mentioned in the respective central list of corresponding states published by the 
Government of India (websites: http://socialjustice.nic.in  and 
https://ncst.nic.in/). 
 
 
 
6.  Reservation in Central Institutes / Universities 
 
The reservation policy of the Government of India is applicable to NEET (UG) Examination. 
According to this, in the Central Universities and Institutions, 10% of the seats are reserved 
for the category General-Economically Weaker Section (GEN-EWS), 15% of the seats are 
reserved for the category Scheduled Caste (SC), 7.5% for the category Scheduled Tribe 
(ST), 27% for the category Other Backward Classes belonging to the Non -Creamy Layer 
(OBC-NCL) and 5% seats (Horizontal Reservation) for PwBD candidates. 
 
Reservation in State Quota Seats/Universities/Institutions /Private Medical Colleges under 
State Governments : In case of seats filled by the State Medical 
Colleges/Universities/Institutions /Private Medical Colleges under State Quota Seats, the 
reservation policy of the concerned State Government shall apply. 
7   Guidelines for PwBD Candidates (For Admission purpose) : 
 
a. The candidates with a benchmark Disability shall be considered for admission in medical 
course against 5% of the total seats, in accordance with the provision under Section 32 
of RPwD Act, 2016. 
b. For AIIMS: In accordance with RPwD Act 2016, PwBD Reservation will be followed 
subject to evaluation by the Medical Board of Institute to determine eligibility. 
c. Candidates who consider themselves eligible for this category are advised to ensure 
their eligibility by getting themselves examined at any Government Medical 
College/District Hospital/Government Hospital. Such Government Medical 
College/District Hospital/ Government Hospital shall issue a Disability Certificate in 
reference to Chapter-VII of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017. Such a 
Disability Certificate is issued as per the Schedule to the  Rights of  Persons with  
Disabilities   Act,  2 016, and the Guidelines for the purpose of assessing the extent of 
specified disability in a person included under the  Rights of  Persons with  Disabilities  
Act,  2016 notified in the Gazette of India by the Ministry of Social Justice and 
Empowerment [Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan)] 
on 4th January 2018 and does not confer any right on any candidate to seek admission 
in a medical course under PwBD   Quota.   The aforesaid Certificate shall be to ascertain 
whether a cand idate can apply to NTA for appearing in NEET (UG) - 2026 under the 
PwBD Quota only. 

--- PAGE 42 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
37 
• At the stage of counseling, the NEET UG qualified PwBD candidates must submit: 
o A valid UDID card issued by a designated medical authority under MoSJE. 
o Self-Certified affidavits  in the format provided under Schedule –I of Interim 
Guidelines dated 19.07.2025. 
o The candidate will have to approach the designated medical board for 
verification of their self-certified affidavit. 
 
8. INSTRUCTIONS FOR COUNSELLING BY THE MCC FOR MBBS AND BDS ADMISSION 
i. Online counselling would be conducted by the Medical Counselling Committee 
(MCC) of the Directorate General of Health Services for Undergraduate Medical 
Courses. Information for online counselling would only be available on the MCC 
website ( https://mcc.nic.in/UGCounselling/) for Undergraduate Medical/Dental 
Courses. Qualified candidates are advised to read the counselling-related information 
carefully and understand the course of action to be taken by them for appearing in 
the Counselling. 
 
MCC is conducting Counselling for: 
A. 15% All India Quota seats MBBS/ BDS Seats of States  
B. 100% MBBS/ BDS Seats of BHU OPEN 
C. AIIMS Open seats- 100% MBBS Seats of AIIMS across India 
D. JIPMER Open (Puducherry/ Karaikal) & Internal seats (Domicile) 
E. AMU Open & Internal seats 
F. 85% Internal quota/domicile seats of DU/ I.P University (VMMC/ 
ABVIMS/ESIC Dental) 
G. Jamia Open seats- Faculty of Dentistry (Jamia Milia Islamia) & Internal seats 
H. 15% All India Quota Seats of ESIC & Insured Persons quota seats 
I. AFMC – Only registration 
J. 100% B.Sc (Nursing) of selected Central B.Sc. Nursing Institutes 
K. Counselling under MCC shall include 100% seats of Deemed Universities, 
including 15% NRI seats. 
 
ii. Any query related to Counselling for admission to seats under 15% All India Quota 
and in Central Institutions / Universities, including 
AIIMS/JIPMER/AFMC/ESIC/DU/BHU/ AMU, and Deemed Universities, may be 
referred to the following address: For MBBS/BDS Cour ses: Office of MCC, National 
Medical Library, Ansari Nagar, East Delhi, E -mail: aipmt-mcc@nic.in, 
https://mcc.nic.in/UGCounselling/Home/ContactUs 
 
iii. Reservation policy for 15% AIQ, Central Institutes (ABVIMS & RML and VMMC 
& SJH, ESIC) Universities (DU, AMU, BHU)/AIIMS/JIPMER is as follows: 
 
Reservation Policy of the Central Government for the NEET (UG) Counselling in All 
India Quota/Central Institutes (ABVIMS & RML and VMMC & SJH, ESIC) Universities 
(DU, AMU, BHU)/AIIMS/JIPMER is as follows: 
➢ S.C- 15 % 
➢ S.T- 7.5 % 
➢ PwBD- 5 % Horizontal Reservation 
➢ OBC (Non-Creamy Layer)- 27% as per Central List of OBC 
➢ EWS- 10 % as per Central Government Norms (who satisfy the conditions 
given in the OM No. 20013/01/2018-BC-II dated 17 January 2019, issued by 
the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment) 
Reservation Policy for Deemed University is as follows: 

--- PAGE 43 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
38 
➢ NRI Quota 
➢ Jain & Muslim Minority 
 
iv. Candidates from the creamy layer and those who do not come under the Central List 
of OBC are advised to mention their category as Unreserved/General. 
  

--- PAGE 44 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
39 
CHAPTER 8 
MERIT LIST AND QUALIFYING CRITERIA 
1. QUALIFYING CRITERIA 
i. The NTA will prepare the Merit List/All India Rank (AIR) as per Qualifying/eligibility criteria 
and other norms as well as the relevant regulations/guidelines of NMC/DGHS/MCC/DCI 
and Ministry of AYUSH/NCISM/NCH/CCH/AACCC, as the case may be. The details 
received from the respective competent authority(ies) will be displayed on the NTA 
website (https://neet.nta.nic.in/) in due course of time. 
ii. The eligibility criteria for admission to Undergraduate Medical Courses are as follows: 
a. In order to be eligible for admission to Undergraduate Medical Courses for a 
particular academic year in case of General, General-EWS, it shall be necessary for 
a candidate to obtain a minimum of marks at the 50th percentile in National Eligibility 
Cum Entrance Test to Undergraduate Medical Courses held for the said academic 
year. However, in respect of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled 
Tribes, Other Backward Classes, the minimum marks shall be at the 40th percentile. 
In respect of cand idates with Benchmark, Disabilities specified under the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, the minimum marks shall be at 45th percentile for 
Unreserved Category & GEN -EWS Category candidates and 40th percentile for 
SC/ST/OBC-NCL candidates. The percentile shall be determined on the basis of the 
highest marks secured in the All India common merit list in the National Eligibility Cum 
Entrance Test for admission to Undergraduate Medical Courses. 
b. Provided when a sufficient number of candidates in the respective categories fail 
to secure minimum marks as prescribed in National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test held 
for any academic year for admission to Undergraduate Medical Courses, the Central 
Government in consultation with the National Medical Commission and Dental 
Council of India, National Commission for Indian System of Medicines and National 
Commission of Homeopathy and any other regulatory body may at its discretion lower 
the minimum marks re quired for admission to Undergraduate Medical Courses for 
candidates belonging to respective categories and marks so lowered by the Central 
Government shall be applicable for the said academic year only. 
c. For admission in BUMS (Bachelor of Unani Medicine and Surgery) Course, the 
candidate must have passed the 10th standard with Urdu or Arabic or Persian 
language as a subject, or clear the test of Urdu of 10th Standard (wherever there is 
provision to conduct  of such test) in the entrance examination conducted by the 
University or Board or registered Society or Association authorized by the 
Government to conduct such examination. For admission in the BSMS (Bachelor of 
Sidhha Medicine and Surgery) course, the Candidate must have passed Tamil as one 
of the subjects in the 10th Standard/in Higher Secondary course or Candidates shall 
have to study Tamil as a subject during the First Professional course. 
d. Provided that a candidate who has appeared in the qualifying examination, the 
result of which has not been declared, may be provisionally permitted to take up the 
competitive entrance examination and in case of selection for admission to the 
Undergraduate Medical Courses, he/she shall not be admitted to that course until 
he/she fulfills the eligibility criteria as specified above.  For details, candidates may 
refer to the Graduate Medical Education Regulations,  2023 and relevant notifications 
issued by NMC on time to time and BDS Course Regulations, 2007, the Indian 
Medicine Central Council (Minimum Standards of Education in Indian Medicine) 
Regulation, and the Homoeopathy (Degree Course) Regulations, 1983. 

--- PAGE 45 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
40 
e. The criteria for minimum qualifying marks to be eligible for admission to MBBS 
courses shall also be applicable to concerned INIs. 
 
iii)  A list of the successful candidates in order of All India Rank based on the marks 
obtained in the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) UG – 2026 will be 
prepared by the NTA.  
 
2. THE INTER-SE-MERIT OF CANDIDATES FOR TIE-BREAKING 
In case of two or more candidates obtain ing equal marks/percentile scores in the NEET (UG) - 
2026, the inter-se-merit shall be determined as follows: 
a. Candidate obtaining higher marks/percentile score in Biology (Botany & Zoology) in 
the Test, followed by, 
b. Candidate obtaining higher marks/percentile score in Chemistry in the Test, followed 
by, 
c. Candidate obtaining higher marks/percentile score in Physics in the Test, followed by, 
d. Candidate with less proportion of the number of attempted incorrect answers and 
correct answers in all the subjects in the Test, 
e. Candidate with less proportion of number of attempted incorrect answers and correct 
answers in Biology (Botany & Zoology) in the Test, followed by 
f. Candidate with less proportion of number of attempted incorrect answers and correct 
answers in Chemistry in the Test, followed by 
g. Candidate with less proportion of number of attempted incorrect answers and correct 
answers in Physics in the Test, followed by 
h. In case, a-g criteria are exhausted and tie still persists, it will be resolved through a 
random process with the guidance of an independent expert committee. 
(As per  Public Notice dated 13.06.2023 issued by UGMEB/NMC and Email vide NMC 
UGSection dated 28.01.2026) 
 
3.  MERIT LIST FOR COUNSELLING UNDER 15% ALL INDIA QUOTA 
 
The merit list of the eligible and successful candidates who have opted for 15% of All India quota 
seats will be prepared by the NTA on the basis of marks obtained in the NEET (UG) - 2026.  The 
list of successful candidates shall be forwarded to the Directorate General of Health Services 
(MCC), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, and National 
Commission for Indian System of Medicine (NCISM) and National Commission for 
Homoeopathy (NCH), Ministry of AYUSH, Govt. of India for the purpose of allotment of seats 
by Online Counselling to 15% All India Quota Seats. 
 
4.  MERIT LIST FOR SEATS OTHER THAN 15% ALL INDIA QUOTA 
 
a. NTA will provide All India Rank and Result will be shared with the DGHS, Ministry of Health 
and Family Welfare, Govt of India and Ministry of AYUSH, Govt. of India along with National 
Commission for Indian System of Medicine (NCISM) and National Commission for 
Homoeopathy (NCH) to provide the same to the counselling authorities.  
 
b. Counselling authorities will invite applications for Counselling. 
 
c. The counselling authorities will draw a merit list of the candidates based on All India Rank 
in the respective categories declared by the candidates at the time of applying for 
admission/counselling as per State applicable rules. 
  

--- PAGE 46 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
41 
 
 CHAPTER 9 
 
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA/QUOTA OF SEATS/RESERVATION/RESULT CRITERIA/ 
COUNSELLING FOR ADMISSION TO BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS COURSES 
 
1. ADMISSION TO ALL SEATS OF BAMS, BSMS, BUMS AND BHMS COURSES THROUGH 
NEET (UG) – 2026 
Admissions to all seats of Undergraduate Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy 
Courses will be done through NEET (UG) – 2026 as per the provisions of the National 
Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Minimum Standards of Undergraduate Ayurveda 
Education), Regulations 2022, National Commission for Indian System of Medicine 
(Minimum Standards of Undergraduate Siddha Education), Regulations 2022 and National 
Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Minimum Standards of Undergraduate Unani 
Education), Regulations 2022 and National Commission for Homoeopathy (Homoeopathy 
Graduate Degree Course BHMS) Regulations 2022 (NCISM & NCH are Regulatory Bodies 
of the above-mentioned Courses under the Ministry of Ayush). 
 
2. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR ADMISSION TO BAMS/BSMS/BUMS /BHMS COURSES 
a. The candidates shall have passed 10+2 (or equivalent) with subjects Physics, Chemistry, 
Biology or Biotechnology.  The admission shall continue to be done through National 
Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) only.  
 
b. No candidate shall be admitted to BAMS, BSMS, BUMS, and BHMS Degree Courses 
unless he has attained the age of seventeen years on or before the 31st December of the 
year of his admission in the first year of the course.    
 
3. THE QUOTA OF SEATS FOR ADMISSION TO BAMS/ BSMS/BUMS /BHMS COURSES: 
a. All India quota Government. 
b. All India quota Government aided. 
c. All India quota Private. 
d. State Govt. quota/ Institutional quota. 
e. Central Universities/National Institutes. 
f. Deemed to be Universities. 
g. Self-financed merit list/NRI Quota. 
 
4.  RESERVATION OF SEATS FOR SC, ST, OBC-NCL, EWS, PWBD, ETC.  FOR ADMISSION 
TO BAMS/BSMS/BUMS /BHMS COURSES 
Reservation Policy of the Central Government in All India Quota seats (Govt./Govt. aided/National 
Institutes/Central Universities) counselling is as follows:  
➢ SC- 15%  
➢ ST- 7.5%  
➢ PwBD- 5% Horizontal Reservation  
➢ OBC (Non - Creamy Layer) - 27 % Only in National Institutes/Central 
Universities 

--- PAGE 47 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
42 
➢ EWS- 10% Only in National Institutes/Central Universities (who satisfy 
the conditions given in the OM No. 20013/01/2018-BC-II dated 17 January 
2019, issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment) 
 
Note: Guidelines regarding admission of students with “Specified Disabilities” under the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 with respect to admission in BAMS/BSMS/BUMS 
course shall be as per the criteria prescribed in the regulations as per the CCIM G azette 
notification dated 18/06/2019 and in BHMS as per the CCH Gazette notification dated 
19/06/2019. 
 
In case of State quota seats counselling under other than minimum 15% All India Quota seats,  
the reservation policy of the concerned State Govt. shall apply. 
 
5. PERCENTAGE CRITERIA FOR DECLARATION OF RESULT / RANKING FOR BAMS, BSMS, 
BUMS, AND BHMS COURSES. 
 To be eligible for admission to under-graduate BAMS, BSMS, BUMS, and BHMS Courses, it shall 
be necessary for a candidate to obtain a minimum of marks at 50th percentile in the ‘National 
Eligibility Entrance Test for undergraduate course’ held for the said academic year: Provided that 
in respect of 
a. For candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and 
Other Backward Classes, the minimum marks shall be at the 40th percentile; 
candidates with benchmark disabilities specified under the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016 (49 of 2016), the minimum marks shall be at 45th percentile 
in the case of General category and GEN-EWS and 40th  percentile in the case 
of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Other Backward Classes. 
6.COUNSELLING PROVISIONS FOR ADMISSION TO BAMS, BSMS, BUMS, BHMS COURSES 
FOR ALL INDIA QUOTA SEATS (AIQ). 
a. An All India Merit List of the qualified candidates shall be prepared on the basis of 
All India Rank in the Merit List of the NEET (UG) - 2026 and candidates shall be 
admitted to Undergraduate Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy Course 
(ASU & H Courses) from the said list only, with existing reservation policy.  
b. Counselling for all India quota seats of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani & Homoeopathy 
Government, Government aided Institutes, Central Universities, National 
Institutes, Deemed to be Universities will be conducted by Ayush Admissions 
Central Counselling Committee (AACCC), and counselling for AIQ seats of Private 
ASU & H Institutes will be conducted by an authority designated by Central 
Government and Counselling for State quota seats will be conducted by respective 
State Government counselling authority as per the  provisions of Regulations 
notified under NCISM Act, 2020 and NCH Act, 2020. 
c. *The details filled by the candidate like candidate category, phone number, and 
email, etc. in NEET (UG)-2026 Online Application will be used for the purpose of 
All India quota seats counselling. No request for change in candidate category 
at the time of all India quota seats counselling will be entertained by the counselling 
authority for all India quota seats designated by the Central Government. 
d. The NTA will have no responsibility with regard to  the matters relating to 
counselling/admission to BAMS, BSMS, BUMS, and BHMS Courses. 

--- PAGE 48 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
43 
e. For further details regarding the counselling/admission to 
BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS Courses, the following Authorities may be contacted:  
i. NCISM Helpdesk, 
(Email: helpdesk@ncismindia.org;)  
Website: https://aaccc.gov.in/aacccug/home/homepage for 
administrative issues only. 
ii. AYUSH Admissions Central Counseling Committee (AACCC), 
Ministry of AYUSH 
(Email: counseling-ayush@gov.in; 
Website: https://aaccc.gov.in/aacccug/home/homepage) for 
queries related to all India quota seat counseling only. 
iii. AYUSH Admissions Counselling Committee of the Directorate of 
AYUSH of respective State Governments / UTs.  
 
7. IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR THE APPLICATION PROCESS 
a. Regarding the application process and other details, the aspiring Candidates of 
BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS Courses may peruse the relevant information /documents 
mentioned in other chapters/ paras, corresponding appendices, apart from the provisions 
mentioned above in this Chapter.   
 
b. The relevant Regulations / Guidelines / Instructions / Notifications / Circulars of the Ministry 
of AYUSH / AYUSH Admissions Central Counselling Committee/ National Commission for 
Indian System of Medicine/ Central Council of Indian Medicine / National Commission of 
Homoeopathy /Central Council of Homoeopathy, as the case may be, may be referred to for 
those mat ters, which are not mentioned above in this Chapter or in any other Chapter / 
Appendices of this Information Bulletin.  
 

--- PAGE 49 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
44 
CHAPTER 10 
ADMIT CARD 
1. The Admit Card is issued provisionally to the candidates, subject to the fulfillment of the eligibility 
conditions. 
2. The candidate has to download the Admit Card from the NTA website ( https://neet.nta.nic.in/) 
and appear for the Examination at the given Centre on the Date and timing as indicated in their 
Admit Card. 
3. No candidate will be allowed to appear at the Examination Centre, on the Date and Timing other 
than that allotted to him/her in his / her Admit Card.  
4. In case a candidate is unable to download his/ her Admit Card from the website, he or she may 
approach the Help Line between 10:00 AM to 05.00 PM or write an email to NTA at 
neetug2026@nta.ac.in. 
5. The candidates are advised to read the instructions given in this Information Bulletin as 
well as on the Admit Card carefully and follow them scrupulously during the conduct of 
the examination.  
6. In case of any discrepancy in the particulars of the candidate or his/her photograph and 
signatures shown in the Admit Card and Confirmation Page, the candidate may immediately 
approach the Help Line between 10:00 AM and 5:00 PM. In such cases, candidates would 
appear in the Examination with the already downloaded Admit Card. However, NTA will 
take necessary action to make corrections in the record later. 
 
 
Note: 
a. The candidate may note that Admit Card will not be sent by post. 
b. In no case, the duplicate Admit Card for NEET (UG) -2026 would be issued at the 
Examination Centres. 
c. The candidate must not mutilate the Admit Card or change any entry made therein. 
d. Candidates are advised to preserve their Admit Card in good condition for future 
reference. 
e. No Admit Card shall be issued to the candidates whose Applications are found to be 
incomplete for any reasons (including indistinct/ doubtful photographs/unsigned 
Applications) or who do not fulfill the eligibility criteria for the examination.  
f. Issue of Admit Card, however, shall not necessarily mean acceptance of eligibility 
which shall be further scrutinized at subsequent stages of the admission process 
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 50 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
45 
CHAPTER 11 
BARRED ITEMS AND DRESS CODE 
1.  BARRED ITEMS 
i) The candidates will be subjected to extensive and compulsory frisking before entering the 
Examination Centre with the help of highly sensitive metal detectors. The candidates are not 
allowed to carry the following items inside the Examination Centre under any circumstances.  
a) Any item like textual material (printed or written), bits of papers, Geometry/Pencil 
Box, Plastic Pouch, Calculator, Pen, Scale, Writing Pad, Pen Drives, Eraser, 
Calculator, Log Table, Electronic Pen/Scanner, etc. 
b) Any communication device like Mobile Phone, Bluetooth, Earphones, 
Microphone, Pager, Health Band, etc. 
c) Other items like Wallet, Goggles, Handbags, Belt, Cap, etc. 
d) Any Watch/Wristwatch, Bracelet, Camera, etc. 
e) Any ornaments/metallic items. 
f) Any food items opened or packed, water bottle, etc. 
g) Any other item which could be used for unfair means, by hiding communication 
devices like a microchip, camera, Bluetooth device, etc. 
ii)  No arrangement will be made at the Centres for keeping any articles/items belonging to the 
candidates. 
iii) The candidates wearing articles or objects of faith (customary/ cultural/ religious) should 
report at the examination centre at least two hours before the last reporting time so that 
there is enough time for proper frisking without any inconvenience to the  candidate while 
maintaining the sanctity of the examination. If upon screening, it is discovered that any 
candidate is actually carrying a suspected device within such item of faith, he/ she may be 
asked not to take it into the examination hall.  
2. DRESS CODE 
i. The candidates are instructed to follow the following dress code while appearing for NEET 
(UG) –2026: 
a. Heavy clothes and/or long sleeves are not p referable. However, in case, 
candidates come in cultural/ customary dress at the Examination Centre, they 
should report at least an hour before the last reporting time i.e. 12.30 PM so that 
there is enough time for proper frisking without any inconvenience to the 
candidate while maintaining the sanctity of the examination. 
b. Slippers, sandals with low heels are preferable.  
c. In case of any deviation required due to unavoidable (medical, etc.) 
circumstances, specific approval of NTA must be taken before the Admit 
Cards are issued.  
ii. It is desired that the candidates follow instructions issued by the NTA strictly. This will help 
NTA in the fair conduct of the examination.   
iii. The candidates will be subjected to extensive and compulsory frisking before entering the 
Examination Centre with the help of highly sensitive metal detectors.  They may also 
undergo various other identity verification checks, such as Biometric, Face Authe ntication, 
videography etc.  
Note:    NTA believes in the sanctity and fairness of conducting the examination, however, 
it also believes in the sensitivity involved in frisking (girl) candidates and will 
issue comprehensive instructions accordingly to the staff and other officials at 
the Examination Centres. The frisking of the female candidates will be done inside 
a closed enclosure by female staff only. 

--- PAGE 51 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
46 
CHAPTER 12 
INFORMATION FOR PARENTS/GUARDIANS 
1.  It is expected that parents/guardians will guide their wards appropriately on the following issues 
before leaving home for appearing in the NEET (UG) – 2026. 
i. The candidate will not be allowed to enter the Examination Centre after 01:30 PM. 
Therefore, the candidate shall leave home well in advance taking into consideration 
various factors such as traffic, location of the Centre and weather conditions, etc. 
ii. The candidate will follow all the instructions and maintain discipline in the Examination 
Hall. 
iii. The candidate will not breach any examination rule. 
iv. The candidate will not use or promote any Unfair means activity during the examination. 
v. In case, the candidate finds another candidate using Unfair means in the examination, 
the same will be immediately informed to the Invigilators on duty. 
vi. The candidate will bring only the following to the Examination Centre: 
• Admit Card along with passport size photograph affixed on it; 
• One passport-size photograph is to be affixed on Attendance Sheet. 
• Valid Original Identity proof, PwBD certificate, if applicable. 
• One Post Card Size (4”X6”) color photograph with white background 
should be pasted on the Proforma downloaded with the Admit Card. 
vii. The candidate shall not bring any barred items at the Centre. 
viii. The candidate shall cooperate with the staff at Examination Centre during Frisking. 
ix. The candidates shall report at the allotted Examination Centre well in advance to make 
themselves available for compulsory physical frisking. 
x. The candidate shall follow the dress code for appearing in NEET (UG) - 2026 
Examination.  If candidates are wearing a customary dress, they need to report at the 
allotted Examination centre latest by 12:30 PM on the day of the examination. 
xi. The candidate should regularly visit the website (https://neet.nta.nic.in/) and also check 
registered email/SMS for any updates regarding the Examination. 
2. It is mandatory to provide the Mobile Number and e-mail of the Parent or Guardian during 
the submission of the online Application Form of NEET (UG) – 2026 as a copy of the 
Confirmation Page, Final Score Card will also be sent to them. 
3.  Incase, your ward is found breaching any of the above, the candidate (your ward) will not 
be permitted to enter in the Examination Centre and will not be allowed to appear in the 
examination. 
4.  If your ward indulges in any disruptive/unauthorized/unfair activities, he/she shall be debarred 
from taking this examination as per rules and shall also be liable for criminal action and/or 
any other action deemed fit by the NTA. 
5.  Ensure that your ward reaches the Examination Centre well before 01:30 PM on the day 
of examination. For the same, your ward should leave the home well in advance 
considering traffic, location of the centre and weather conditions, etc. It would be 
appropriate to visit the Centre a day before the examination to confirm the location, 
distance, etc. to avoid any problem of reaching late at the centre and then not being 
allowed to appear in the examination.  

--- PAGE 52 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
47 
CHAPTER 13 
INSTRUCTIONS TO BE FOLLOWED IN THE EXAMINATION HALL 
 
1. The Examination Centre will be opened three (03) hours before the commencement of the 
test. No candidate shall be allowed to enter the Examination Centre after 1:30 PM. Therefore, 
candidates must ensure that they leave home well in advance considering all facts like traffic, 
location of the Centre, weather conditions, etc. Candidates are expected to take their seats 
immediately after the opening of the Examination Hall. 
* (06:00 PM for eligible PwD/PwBD candidates) 
 
2. The candidate must show, on-demand, the Admit Card for admission in the Examination Hall. 
A candidate who does not possess a valid Admit Card shall not be allowed to enter the 
Examination Hall by the Centre Superintendent.  
3. A seat with a roll number will be allotted to each candidate. Candidates must find out and 
occupy their allotted seats. If a candidate is found appearing in the Examination from a seat 
or room other than the allotted one, the candidature shall be cancelled. 
4. During the examination time, the Invigilator will check Admit Card of the candidates to ascertain 
the identity of each candidate. The Invigilators will also put their own signature in the place 
provided in the Answer Sheet and on the Attendance Sheet. 
5. A candidate who comes after 01:30 PM shall not be permitted to enter the Examination Centre 
under any circumstances. 
6. Candidates must bring ONLY the following documents on the day of examination at the 
test centre. Candidates who will not bring these will not be allowed to sit in the 
examination. 
• A printed copy of Admit Card downloaded from NTA website with passport size 
photograph (same as uploaded on the Application form pasted on it). 
• One passport size photograph (same as uploaded on the Online Application Form) for 
pasting on the specific space in the Attendance Sheet at Centre during NEET (UG) - 
2026 Examination. 
• One Post Card Size (4”X6”) color photograph with white background should be 
pasted on the Proforma downloaded with the Admit Card.  
• Any one of the authorized photo IDs (must be original and valid like PAN card/Driving 
License/Voter ID/Passport/Aadhaar Card /DigiLocker, APAAR ID. 
• Certificate of physical limitation to write and/or PwBD certificate issued by the Competent 
Authority, if claiming the relaxation under PwBD category. 
 
Date of Examination 03 May 2026 (Sunday) 
• Timing and Duration of Examination 
02.00 PM to 05.00 PM (Indian Standard 
Time) 
(3 hours) 
• Reporting/Entry time at Centre 11:00 AM 
• Last Entry to the Examination Centre 01.30 PM 
• Announcement of Important Instructions 
and Checking of Admit Cards by the 
Invigilator 
01.30 PM to 01.45 PM 
• Distribution of Test Booklet by the 
Invigilator 01.45 PM 
• Writing of particulars on the Test Booklet 
by the Candidate 01.50 PM 
• Test Commences 02.00 PM 
• Test Concludes 05.00 PM* 

--- PAGE 53 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
48 
7. Candidates are not allowed to bring any barred item or any item which could be used for 
Unfair practices. Possession of any such article with the candidates inside the Centre 
premises will attract the penalties of unfair practices as per Public Examinations (Prevention 
of Unfair Means) Act, 2024. 
8. Candidates are advised in their own interest not to bring any of the barred items to the venue 
of the examination as arrangements for safekeeping will not be made and candidates found 
in possession of these items will not be allowed to enter the Examination Centre.  
9. No candidate will leave his/her seat or the Examination Room/Hall until the Test concludes 
as per the schedule. Candidates should not leave the Room/Hall without handing over their 
OMR Sheets to the invigilator on duty.  
10. Smoking in the examination centre and nearby is strictly prohibited.  
11. Water Bottles, Tea, coffee, cold drinks or snacks, etc. are not allowed to be taken by the 
candidates into the examination centre. Candidates suffering from diabetes are allowed to 
carry into the examination hall the eatables (with prior intimation) like sugar tablets/fruits (like 
banana/apple/orange) and transparent water bottles. However, they will not be allowed to 
carry packed foods like chocolate/ candy/sandwich, etc. 
12. The Test will start exactly at the time mentioned in the Admit Card and an announcement to 
this effect will be made by the Invigilator.  
13. Before the start of the Examination, important instructions will be communicated to the 
candidates by the Invigilator for strict compliance by the candidates. 
14. A  signal will be given at the beginning of the examination and at half-time. A signal will also 
be given before the closing time when the candidate must stop marking the responses. 
15. The candidate must sign twice on the Attendance Sheet at the specified place, the first time 
immediately after the commencement of the examination and the second time while handing 
over the Answer Sheet to the Invigilator (This time indicated on the Attend ance 
Sheets/Answer Sheets is in no way reflection of the actual time of distribution of the question 
papers and the receipt of Answer Sheets packed by the invigilator due to operational 
aspects). The candidates are also required to put the Thumb impression in the space 
provided on the Attendance Sheet. 
16. The candidate will check and ensure that the Test Booklet contains as many pages as are 
written on the top of the cover page. 
17. For those who are unable to appear on the scheduled date of the test for any reason, a re -
test shall not be held by the NTA under any circumstances. 
18. The candidates, suffering from Diabetes, may be taken care of at the Centre as per the 
instructions issued by NTA.  
19. The conduct of the NEET (UG) - 2026 Examination would be videographed. The candidates 
are required to keep their heads in an upright position and face the camera during the 
videography so that their identity can be clearly established. The candidates should agree to 
the videography during the examination. 

--- PAGE 54 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
49 
CHAPTER 14 
UNFAIR MEANS PRACTICES AND BREACH OF EXAMINATION RULES 
 
1. Definition 
Unfair means practice is an activity that allows a candidate to gain an unfair advantage over 
other candidates. It includes, but is not limited to: 
 
a. Being in possession of any item or article which has been prohibited or can be used 
for unfair practices including any stationery item, communication device, accessories, 
eatables, ornaments, or any other material or information relevant or not relevant to  
the examination in the paper concerned.  
b. Using someone to write the examination (impersonation) or preparing material for 
copying; 
c. Breaching examination rules or any direction issued by NTA in connection with the 
conduct of the NEET (UG) - 2026 examination from time to time. 
d. Assisting other candidates to engage in malpractices, giving or receiving assistance 
directly or indirectly of any kind or attempting to do so; 
e. Writing questions or answers on any material other than the answer sheet given by 
the Centre Superintendent for writing answers. 
f. Tearing/Defacing of filled OMR Sheet, any page of the test booklet, etc.  
g. Contacting or communicating or trying to do so with any person, other than the 
Examination Staff, during the examination time in the Examination Centre. 
h. Taking away the answer sheet (Original OMR/Office Copy of OMR) out of the 
examination hall/room. 
i. Smuggling out of Question Paper or its part or smuggling out answer sheet or part 
thereof.  
j. Threatening any of the officials connected with the conduct of the examination or 
threatening any of the candidates. 
k. Using or attempting to use any other undesirable method or means in connection with 
the examination. 
l. Manipulation and fabrication of online documents viz. admit card, rank letter, self -
declaration, etc. 
m. Forceful entry/exit in/from Examination Centre/Hall. 
n. Use or attempted use of any electronic device after entering the Examination Centre; 
o. Affixing/uploading of wrong/morphed photographs on the application form/admit 
card/proforma. 
p. Erasing or obliterating any information printed on the OMR Answer Sheet. 
q. Providing incorrect information and/or overwriting of the Roll No./ Test Booklet No. / 
own Name of the Candidate / Father’s Name / Mother’s Name / own Signature, on 
the OMR Answer Sheet. 
r. Making fake claims by manipulating the responses in the OMR sheet by/on tampering 
it in any way whatsoever, uploaded on the website for the challenge before or after 
the declaration of the result. 
s. Creating obstacles in smooth and fair conduct of the examination.  
t. Any other malpractices declared as Unfair means by the NTA. 
u. Any other unfair means practice covered under Clause 3 of Chapter II under Public 
Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 2024. 

--- PAGE 55 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
50 
 
2. PUNISHMENT FOR USING UNFAIRMEANS PRACTICES 
 
During the course of, before, or after the examination if a candidate indulges in any of the 
above or similar practices, he/she shall be deemed to have used unfair practices and booked 
under UNFAIR MEANS (U.F.M.) case. The candidate would be debarred upto 3 years 
from NTA examination (depending on the gravity of unfair means) in future and shall 
also be liable for criminal action and /or any other action as declared in Public 
Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 2024. 
 
3.CANCELLATION OF RESULT 
 
a. The result of NEET(UG) -2026 of the candidates who indulge in Unfair means  
Practices will be cancelled and will not be declared.  
 
b. Similarly, the result of those candidates who appear from the Centre other than the 
one allotted to them, write on the Test booklet/OMR Sheet of other candidates or 
allow other candidates to write on their Test Booklet/OMR Sheet will be cancelled 
(and will not be declared). 
  

--- PAGE 56 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
51 
CHAPTER 15 
POST EXAMINATION ACTIVITIES AND DECLARATION OF RESULT 
1. Display of OMR sheets and responses on the website and challenging the grading of 
questions on OMR 
i. After the conduct of the examination, NTA will display the scanned images of OMR Answer 
Sheets and recorded responses by the machine, of all candidates on the website 
(https://neet.nta.nic.in/). The exact date of display of scanned images of OMR Answer Sheets 
shall be communicated after the examination on the NTA website.  
 
ii. Applicants will be given an opportunity to submit representation against the OMR grading by 
paying a non-refundable processing fee of ₹ 200/- per question challenged.  
 
iii. Representations made by the candidates against the OMR grading will be verified by the 
NTA from the actual record and the same will be updated in the data if challenges are found 
to be correct. However, no intimation in this regard will be sent to an individual candidate.  
 
iv. Applicants are advised to visit the website https://neet.nta.nic.in/ for viewing and downloading 
the image of the OMR Answer Sheet by the candidates. 
 
2. DISPLAY OF ANSWER KEY FOR THE CHALLENGE 
i. The NTA will display the Provisional Answer Key of the questions, giving an opportunity to 
the candidates to challenge, in case of any doubt in the answer key published on the website 
https://neet.nta.nic.in/. For the exact date of display of the Answer Key, candidates may 
regularly check updates on the NTA website after the examination.   
ii. Candidates will be given an opportunity to make an online challenge against the provisional 
Answer Key by paying a non-refundable processing fee of ₹ 200/- per answer challenged, 
within a specified period as indicated in the Public Notice. 
iii. Challenges made by the candidates will be verified by the NTA with the help of a panel 
of subject experts.  If the challenge of any candidate is found correct, the Answer Key 
will be revised and applied in the response of all the candidates accordingly.  B ased 
on the revised Final Answer Key, the result will be prepared and declared . No 
individual candidate will be informed about the acceptance/non-acceptance of his/her 
challenge.  
iv. The key finalized after the challenges will be treated as final and will be displayed on 
NTA website before declaration of result.   
 
3. DECLARATION OF RESULT 
i. The National Testing Agency will evaluate the Answer Sheets using standard procedure and 
the result will be displayed on the website: https://neet.nta.nic.in/ and thereafter candidates 
may download their respective Score Cards. 
 
ii. The NTA will prepare the Merit List/ All India Rank (AIR) as per Qualifying Criteria and other 
norms as mentioned in Chapter 14 of this Bulletin as well as the relevant regulations/ 
guidelines of NMC/DGHS/MCC and Ministry of AYUSH / NCISM /NCH/CCH/AACCC, as the 
case may be. All Candidates appearing in NEET (UG) - 2026 must regularly check updates 
on the website of NTA ( https://neet.nta.nic.in/); MoH&FW(https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ ); 
AYUSH Ministry ( www.ayush.gov.in); DGHS( https://dghs.gov.in/); Medical Counselling 
Committee (https://mcc.nic.in/UGCounselling); (Admission Central Counselling Committee 
of Ministry of AYUSH (https://aaccc.gov.in/) and other concerned Authorities of participating 
States / Universities / Institutions, till the conclusion of the final round of Counselling. 
  

--- PAGE 57 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
52 
4. RE-CHECKING/RE-EVALUATION OF ANSWER SHEETS 
• The machine –gradable Answer Sheets are evaluated with extreme care and are 
repeatedly scrutinized. 
• There is no provision for re -checking/re-evaluation of the answer sheets.  This is 
because of the following reasons: 
i. The OMRs are machine gradable and are being evaluated through specific 
software impartial to all.  
ii. The candidates are given an opportunity to make the representation on the OMR 
gradation of their OMR sheets and also given an opportunity to challenge the 
answer key in case of any doubt.   
• No correspondence in this regard will be entertained. 
 
5.USE OF THE RESULT OF NEET (UG) - 2026 BY OTHER ORGANIZATIONS 
The Result of NEET (UG) - 2026 may be utilized by other Entities of Central and State 
Governments, in accordance with their respective eligibility criteria / other norms /applicable 
regulations/guidelines/rules. The result data will also be utilized for B.Sc. (H) Nursing 
courses in accordance with their respective eligibility criteria / other norms /applicable 
regulations/guidelines/ rules. The NEET (UG) - 2026 data will also be used for admissions 
to BVSc & AH courses  under the 15% quota of VCI i n recognized Veterinary Colleges. 
However, the Council has to approach the MCC of DGHS, MoHFW in order to obtain the said 
data of results. 
Note: Military Nursing Service (MNS) aspirants seeking admission to B.Sc Nursing 
Course being conducted at Armed Forces Medical Service Hospitals for the year 
2026 are required to qualify NEET. The NEET score will be used for shortlisting for 
selection to the four year B.Sc Nursing course. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 58 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
53 
CHAPTER 16 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
1.Caution Notice 
i) Candidates are advised to refer to only NEET (UG) website: https://neet.nta.nic.in/ authentic 
information and periodic updates. 
ii) Candidates are advised to be careful about any wrong information/false claim of any person 
or institute regarding the NEET (UG) Examination or securing a seat on the basis of its 
Result. 
iii) Candidates are advised to bring any such information to the notice of NTA through e-mail at 
neetug2026@nta.ac.in. 
 
2. Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) 
 
i)  NEET (UG) 2026 is a high stake Examination and is conducted by NTA on behalf of NMC, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW). The contents of this exam are confidential, 
proprietary and are owned by NTA/NMC/MoHFW and explicitly prohibits the candidate from 
publishing, reproducing, or transmitting any or some content of this test, in whole or in part, 
in any form or by any means, verbal or written, electronic or mechanical or for any purpose. 
ii)  By registering for and /or appearing in NEET (UG) - 2026, the candidate explicitly agrees to 
the above Non -Disclosure Agreement and general terms of use for NEET (UG) - 2026 as 
contained in this Information Bulletin of NEET (UG) – 2026 and website 
https://neet.nta.nic.in/.  
iii) Violation of any act or breach of the same shall be liable for penal action and cancellation of 
the candidature at the bare threshold. 
 
3. Correspondence regarding NEET (UG) - 2026 
The Candidates are required to submit their genuine queries/grievances relating to their 
Candidature for the NEET (UG) - 2026 through the Helpdesk on 011 -40759000 or 011 -
69227700/email relating to this Exam may be addressed to: neetug2026@nta.ac.in. 
However, such email should not be anonymous and must contain: the name, 
registration/application no/roll no., postal address of the Candidate, and contact number of 
the sender. An email containing vague or general queries shall not be entertained. 
Considering the volume of queries/questions received from the Candidates and /or on their 
behalf, NTA cannot guarantee to reply to each and every email received from the Candidates. 
In no case, repetitive emails on the same issue/matter would be entertained . Queries shall 
not be entertained from persons claiming to be representatives, associates, or officiate of the 
applicant candidate. 
The following information shall not be revealed by phone or email: 
a. Internal documentation/status. 
b. The internal decision-making process of NTA. Any claim/counterclaim thereof. 
c. Dates & venue of internal meetings or name of the staff/officers dealing with it. 
d. Any information which in the opinion of NTA cannot be revealed.   
 
(Note: In terms of the Communication (vide Letter No. 35 -5/2017-TS.I dated 24.11.2020) of the 
Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Govt. of India, the 
complaints/suggestions/grievances relating to NEET (UG) may be addressed directly to NTA 
or to the Ministry of  Health and Family Welfare and /or Administrative Head of the concerned 
Organization, for redressal).   

--- PAGE 59 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
54 
 
4. Common Services Centres/Facilitation Centres 
i. Candidates who are not well conversant with submitting the online application due 
to various constraints can use the services of Common Services Centre, Ministry 
of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India. The Common 
Services Centre (CSC) scheme is a part of the ambitious National e -Governance 
Plan (NeGP) of the Government of India and is managed at each village panchayat 
level by a Village Level Entrepreneur(VLE). 
 
ii. There are more than 1.5 lakhs Common Services Centres (CSC) across the country 
which will provide the desired support to candidates from urban as well as rural 
areas in online submission of Application Form and payment of fee through e-wallet. 
The list of the Common Services Centre is available on the website: 
www.csc.gov.in. 
 
5.Weeding out Rules 
All the records/documents of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test NEET (UG) -2026 would 
be preserved only up to 90 days from the date of declaration of result and after that they all 
will be weeded out. No information/correspondence will be provided/entertained after the 
elapsing of stipulated time period. 
 
6.Legal Jurisdiction 
All disputes pertaining to the conduct of the NEET (UG) - 2026 Examination including Results 
shall fall within the jurisdiction of the Court(s) in Delhi only. Further, any legal question arising 
out of the Examination shall be entertained only when raised within 30 days from the 
declaration of result. Further, the copy of Legal Notice or Writ Petition/Petition/Appeal/Reply 
may be served to NTA only through: legal@nta.ac.in. 
 
(Note: - In terms of the Communication (vide Letter No. 35-5/2017-TS.I dated 24.11.2020) 
of the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Govt. of India, the 
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (and not the Ministry of Education) has to defend 
the interest of Union of India in the Court Cases relating to NEET (UG).  
 
7. Safe Custody of OMR Sheet and Score Card in DigiLocker 
The Admit Cards of the Candidates will also be easily accessible to them in the DigiLocker at 
https://www.digilocker.gov.in/, if they provide their consent at the time of online application for 
the storage of their application data.   
The scanned copy of the original OMR Answer Sheet and Score Card of the Candidates 
of NEET (UG) will be kept in the safe custody of DigiLocker [maintained by the Ministry 
of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)] for the easy access of the same by 
the respective candidates at : https://digilocker.gov.in,  on the basis of their consent 
given at the time of submission of online application.    
Targeted at the idea of paperless governance, DigiLocker is a platform for issuance and 
verification of documents and certificates in a digital way, thus eliminating the use of physical 
documents. Indian citizens who sign up for a DigiLocker account get a dedicated cloud 

--- PAGE 60 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
55 
storage space that is linked to their Aadhaar (UIDAI) number. Organizations that are 
registered with Digital Locker can push electronic copies of documents and certificates (e.g. 
driving license, Voter ID, School certificates) directly into citizens locker s. Citizens can also 
upload scanned copies of their legacy documents in their accounts. These legacy documents 
can be electronically signed using the eSign facility.  
The benefits of DigiLocker includes the following: 
1. Candidates can access their documents, such as, Confirmation page of the online 
Application Form, Admit Card, OMR Answer Sheet, Score Card etc. anytime and 
anywhere from their respective DigiLocker. This is convenient and time saving. 
2. In case a Candidate forgets his User ID or Password  to access required 
information / data from NEET (UG) Portal, he/ she can easily retrieve his/ her 
Application No. / Registered Mobile No. from his / her DigiLocker account and 
access the portal.  
3. DigiLocker makes it easier for the Candidates to validate the authenticity of their 
documents as they are issued directly by the registered issuers. 
4. Self-uploaded documents can be digitally signed using the eSign facility (which is 
similar to the process of self-attestation). 
 In view of the above benefits, the Candidates may give their consent at the time of 
submission of Online Application Form for the storage of their NEET (UG) Application Data 
and for the access of the same by themselves as well as NTA (as and when required  for 
official purposes).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
    
 
 
  

--- PAGE 61 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
56 
Appendix-I 
The National Medical Commission Act (2019) 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 62 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
57 
Appendix-II 
State Medical Education Directorates & Offices where Counselling related information is 
available 
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HEALTH 
SERVICES 
15% ALL INDIA QUOTA, CENTRAL INSTITUTIONS, 
ESIC, BHU & AMU, AFMC AND DEEMED 
UNIVERSITIES, COUNSELLING 
The Deputy Director General/Assistant 
Director General (ME), 
Directorate General of Health Services, 
Office of MCC, National Medical Library, 
New Delhi. 
Telephone No. :  011-69227405 
Website             :  https://mcc.nic.in/ 
E-Mail ID        :  aiqpmt-mcc@nic.in 
MINISTRY OF AYUSH 
The Director (SRKV), 
Ministry of AYUSH, 
AYUSH Bhawan, B-Block, GPO 
Complex, 
INA, New Delhi- 110023 
15% ALL INDIA QUOTA, CENTRAL INSTITUTIONS, 
CENTRAL UNIVERSITY, DEEMED UNIVERSITY & 
NATIONAL INSTITUTES 
(AYURVEDA/SIDDHA/UNANI/HOMOEOPATHY 
COLLEGES)  
Telephone No.: 011-24651980 
Website: www.aaccc.gov.in 
Email: Counselling-ayush@gov.in 
DETAILS OF STATES/UNION 
TERRITORIES COUNSELLING 
AUTHORITIES 
85% STATE QUOTA AND SEATS FALLING UNDER 
STATE/UNION TERRITORY JURISDICTION 
ANDAMAN & NICOBAR ISLANDS 
The Director (Health Services), 
Directorate of Health Services, 
Andaman & Nicobar Administration, 
Secretariat, Port Blair-744101 
Telephone No.  :  03192-233331 
Fax No.             :  03192-232910 
Website             :  www.dhs.andaman.gov.in 
E-mail ID           :  dirdhs.and@nic.in 
ARUNACHAL PRADESH 
The Director (Health Services), 
Directorate of Health Services 
Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh, 
Naharlagun, Arunachal Pradesh-791110 
Distt. Papumpare 
Telephone No.   :  3060-2214416 
Fax No.            :  0360-2244182 
Website            :   http://www.apdhte.nic.in/ 
E-mail ID          :  dhearunachal@rediffmail.com 
ASSAM 
The Director of Medical Education 
Office of the Director of Medical 
Education, 
Sixmile, Khanapara, Guwahati, 
Assam, Pin-781022 
Telephone No.   :  0361-2366236 
Fax No.             :  0361-2366236 
Website            :   www.dmeassam.gov.in 
E-mail ID          :  dmeassam@gmail.com,            
          dme@assam.gov.in 
ANDHRA PRADESH 
The Directorate of Medical Education 
Old Govt. General Hospital 
Hanumanceta 
Amravati, Vijaywada - 520003 
Tel. (Off)    :  0866-2574065 
Fax No.              : 
E-mail ID          :  dmegoap@gmail.com 
Website           :  www.dme.ap.nic.in 
BIHAR 
The Director of Medical Education 
Directorate of Health Services, 
Department of Health & Family Welfare,  
Vikas Bhawan Patna-800001, Bihar 
Telephone No.  : 0612-2215809 
Website           : http://health.bih.nic.in/ 
E-mail ID         : health-bhi@nic.in 
CHANDIGARH 
The Director Principal 
Govt. Medical College Hospital, 
Sector-32, Chandigarh 
Telephone No.   :  0172-2601023-2601024 
Fax No.          :  0772-2609360 
Website          :  www.gmch.gov.in 
E-mail ID          :  dpgmchchd@gmch.gov.in 
  

--- PAGE 63 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
58 
CHHATTISGARH 
The Director of Medical Education 
Directorate of Medical Education 
Old Nurses Hostel, Mantralaya Complex, 
Raipur-492001, Chhatisgarh 
Telephone No.  :  0771-2972977 
Fax No.        :  0771-2234451 
Website         : www.cgdme.in 
E-mail ID      :  cgdme@rediffmail.com 
DADRA AND NAGAR HAVELI 
The Director of Education 
1st Floor, Building No.5, 
P.W.D. Office Complex, 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Silvassa 
Telephone No.  :  0260-2642940 
Fax No.           :  0260-2642006 
Website            :  vbch.dnh.nic.in 
E-mail ID         :  vkdas511@gmail.com 
DAMAN & DIU (UT) 
The  Assistant Director (Technical 
Education) 
UT Administration of Daman & Diu 
Government Polytechnic, 
Varkund, MotaFalia 
Nani Daman-396210 
Telephone No. :  0260-2231707, 2230468 
Fax No.         :  0260-2251351 
Website           :  http://daman.nic.in 
E-mail ID         :  pers.dd@nic.in 
  ceodp-dmn-dd@nic.in 
DELHI  
Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha 
University  
Sector - 16C, Dwarka,  
New Delhi - 110078 
Phone :  +91-11-23063539 
Fax :  +91-11- 25302111 
Website                        :       dghs.gov.in     
E-Mail Id :  ggsipu.pr@rediffmail.com 
        pro@ipu.ac.in 
GOA 
The Assistant Director 
Centralized Admission Division (CAD) 
Directorate of Technical Education, 
Alto-Porvorim, Goa-403571 
Telephone No.  :  0832-2413571 
Fax No.            :  0832-2413572 
Website          :  www.dtegoa.gov.in 
E-mail ID         : dir-dte.goa@nic.in 
GUJARAT 
The Dean 
B.J. Medical College, 
Asarwa, Ahmedabad 
Gujarat 
Telephone No. :  079-22680074 
Fax No.        :  079-22683067 
Website      :  www.bjmc.org 
E-mail ID     : bjmc.pgdirector.@gmail.com 
HARYANA 
The Director 
Medical Education & Research Haryana 
Paryatan Bhawan, 
Bays No.55-58, 
Sector-2, Panchkula. 
Telephone No. :  0172-2560799 
Fax No.        :  0172-2566556 
Website         :  Dremharyana.gov.in  
E-mail ID          :  drem.hry@nic.in 
HIMACHAL PRADESH 
The Director 
Medical Education & Research, 
Block No.06, SDA Complex, 
Kusumti, Shimla-171009. 
Telephone No.  :  0177-2622050 
Fax No.             :  0177-2620733 
Website             : himachal.nic.in 
E-mail ID        : pmis.dhs@gmail.com  
JAMMU & KASHMIR  
The Director (Health Services) 
Directorate of Health Services,  
Jammu Division, 
Near MLA’s Hostel, Jammu Tawi 
Jammu - 180001  
Telephone No.  :  0191-2546338 (O) 
Fax No.            :  0191-2549632, 2566599 
Website            :  dhsjammu.jk.gov.in 
E-mail ID                     : dhsjammu@rediffmail.com 
The Director (Health Services) 
Directorate of Health Services, Old 
Secretariat (J & K), Srinagar, Kashmir 
 
Telephone No.  :  0194-2452052 (O) 
Fax No.            :  0194-24527313 
Website         :  http://www.jkhealth.org 
E-mail ID                     : amarist786@gmail.com,                                             
dhsk76@gmail.com 
JHARKHAND 
The Controller of Examination 
Jharkhand Combined Entrance 
Telephone No.  : 9264473891 
Fax No.            :  0651-2230336 

--- PAGE 64 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
59 
Competitive Examination Board,  
Science & Technology Campus, 
SirkhaToli, Namkum-Tupudana Road, 
Namkum, Ranchi -834023 
Website           :       www.jceceb.jharkhand.gov.in 
E-mail ID        :  jceceboard@gmail.com 
KARNATAKA 
Directorate of Medical Education 
Anand Rao Circle 
Bangalore-560009 
Telephone No.  :  080-22870060  
Fax No.             :  080-22875798 
Website            :    
http://www.karnataka.gov.in/dmekarnataka 
E-mail ID         :  dmekarnataka@yahoo.com 
KERALA 
The Commissioner for Entrance 
Examinations 
Vth Floor, Housing Board Buildings, 
Santhi Nagar,  
Thiruvananthapuram-695001 
Telephone No.  :  0471-2525300 
Fax No.           :  0471-2337228 
Website         :  www.cee-kerala.org 
E-mail ID          :  ceekinfo@cee.kerala.gov.in 
LADAKH (UT) 
The Director (Health Services) 
Directorate of Health Services,  
Jammu Division, 
Near MLA’s Hostel, Jammu Tawi 
Jammu - 180001  
Telephone No.  :  0191-2546338 (O) 
Fax No.            :  0191-2549632, 2566599 
Website            :  http://www.jkhealth.org 
E-mail ID                     : dhsjammu@rediffmail.com 
LAKSHADWEEP (UT) 
The Director of Education 
Department of Education 
UT of Lakshadweep. 
 
Telephone No.  :  04896-262241  
Fax No.           :  04896-262264 
Website            :  www.lakshadweep.nic.in 
E-mail ID       :  lk-doe@hub.nic.in 
MAHARASHTRA 
COMMISSIONERATE, STATE COMMON 
ENTRANCE TEST CELL 
8th Floor, New Excelsior Building, 
 A. K. Nayak Marg, Fort, Mumbai-400001 
Telephone No.  :  07969134401 
 :      022-22016134/19/28  
Website:  :       www.mahacet.org 
E-mail ID          :  
maharashtra.cetcell@gmail.com 
MIZORAM 
The Director 
Higher & Technical Education, 
Govt. of Mizoram, 
Mcdonald Hill, Zarkawt, 
Aizawl, Mizoram 
Telephone No. :  0389-2340926 
Fax No.              :  0389-2340927 
Website            :  http://healthmizoram.nic.in 
E-mail ID        :      director_htemz@yahoo.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 65 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
60 
Appendix-III 
Syllabus of NEET (UG)-2026 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 66 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
61 
 
NMC (National Medical Commission) has notified the syllabus of NEET (UG) - 2026. The detailed 
syllabus is available on the official Website(s) of NTA and NMC (https://www.nmc.org.in) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 


--- PAGE 67 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
62 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 68 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
63 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 69 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
64 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 


--- PAGE 70 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
65 
  
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 71 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
66 
  


--- PAGE 72 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 73 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
68 
  


--- PAGE 74 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
69 
  


--- PAGE 75 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
70 
  


--- PAGE 76 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 77 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
72 
 
  


--- PAGE 78 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
73 
  


--- PAGE 79 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
74 
  


--- PAGE 80 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
75 
 


--- PAGE 81 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
76 
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQs) related to the Syllabus of NEET (UG) – 2026 
 
S.N
o 
Question Reply 
1. Where I can access the 
syllabus of the National 
Eligibility-cum-Entrance 
Test NEET(UG)-2026? 
NEET (UG) is a uniform entrance examination for 
admission to undergraduate medical courses under the 
National Medical Commission (NMC), National 
Commission for Indian System of Medicine (NCISM) and 
National Commission for Homeopathy (NCH) and is 
applicable to MBBS, BHMS and BAMS and other 
courses.  
 
NMC has notified and uploaded the syllabus of NEET 
(UG) – 2026. The syllabus can be accessed by clicking 
on the following 
link:https://www.nmc.org.in/MCIRest/open/getDocument
?path=/Documents/Public/Portal/LatestNews/Public%2
0Notice_NEET_removed.pdf.  
 
The same is also available on the NTA website 
:https://neet.nta.nic.in/. 
2. Is there any change in the 
syllabus for NEET(UG) -
2026withrespectto the 
previous year? 
No, there is no change in the syllabus of NEET (UG) –
2026 with respect to the previous year. 
 
4. In Unit 2 of the Biology 
syllabus, it is written–“of an 
insect(Frog)”.But Frog is 
not an insect. 
It should be read as of an insect and a frog”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 82 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
77 
 
Appendix–IV 
Details of Medical/Dental/Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani/Homoeopathy Colleges 
 
➢ The List of Medical Colleges may be accessed from: www.nmc.org.in 
➢ The List of Dental Colleges may be accessed from: https://dciindia.gov.in/ 
➢ The List of Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani/Homoeopathy Colleges may be accessed from the 
website (s) www.ccimindia.org, http://www.ayush.gov.in, and https://nch.org.in  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 83 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
78 
Appendix-V 
State/Union Territory Wise List of Examination Cities for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test 
(NEET-UG-2026) 
S. 
No 
City 
Code State / UT District Exam City 
1 1101 Andaman & Nicobar 
Islands (UT) South Andaman Sri Vijaya Puram (Port Blair) 
2 1211 Andhra Pradesh Guntur Amaravathi 
3 1212 Andhra Pradesh Anantapur Anantapur 
4 1213 Andhra Pradesh West Godavari Bhimavaram 
5 1214 Andhra Pradesh Prakasam Chirala 
6 1215 Andhra Pradesh Chittoor Chittoor 
7 1216 Andhra Pradesh West Godavari Eluru 
8 1217 Andhra Pradesh Anantapur Gooty 
9 1218 Andhra Pradesh Nellore Gudur 
10 1219 Andhra Pradesh YSR Kadapa Kadapa (YSR Kadapa) 
11 1220 Andhra Pradesh East Godavari Kakinada 
12 1221 Andhra Pradesh Kurnool Nandyal 
13 1222 Andhra Pradesh Prakasam Ongole 
14 1223 Andhra Pradesh YSR Kadapa Proddatur 
15 1224 Andhra Pradesh East Godavari Rajamahendravaram 
(Rajahmundry) 
16 1225 Andhra Pradesh Srikakulam Srikakulam 
17 1227 Andhra Pradesh West Godavari Tadepalligudem 
18 1228 Andhra Pradesh West Godavari Tanuku 
19 1229 Andhra Pradesh Vizianagaram Vizianagaram 
20 1201 Andhra Pradesh Guntur Guntur 
21 1202 Andhra Pradesh Kurnool Kurnool 
22 1203 Andhra Pradesh Nellore Nellore 
23 1204 Andhra Pradesh Chittoor Tirupathi/Tirupati 
24 1205 Andhra Pradesh Krishna Vijayawada 
25 1206 Andhra Pradesh Vishakapatnam Visakhapatnam 
26 1207 Andhra Pradesh Tenali Tenali 
27 1208 Andhra Pradesh Guntur Narasaraopet 
28 1209 Andhra Pradesh Machilipatnam Machilipatnam 
29 1210 Andhra Pradesh Mangalagiri Mangalagiri 
30 1304 Arunachal Pradesh Pasighat/East Siang Pasighat 
31 1303 Arunachal Pradesh Namsai Namsai 
32 1301 Arunachal Pradesh Papum Pare Itanagar/Naharlagun 
33 1405 Assam Baksa Baksa 
34 1406 Assam Barpeta Barpeta 
35 1407 Assam Darrang (Mangaldoi) Mangaldoi 
36 1408 Assam Dhubri Dhubri 
37 1409 Assam Goalpara Goalpara 
38 1410 Assam Golaghat Golaghat 

--- PAGE 84 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
79 
39 1411 Assam Hailakandi Hailakandi 
40 1412 Assam Jorhat Jorhat 
41 1413 Assam Lakhimpur North Lakhimpur 
42 1414 Assam Nagaon Nagaon 
43 1415 Assam Nalbari Nalbari 
44 1416 Assam Sivasagar Sivasagar 
45 1417 Assam Udalguri Udalguri 
46 1401 Assam Dibrugarh Dibrugarh 
47 1402 Assam Kamrup Metropolitan Guwahati 
48 1403 Assam Cachar Silchar 
49 1404 Assam Sonitpur Tezpur 
50 1508 Bihar Araria Araria 
51 1509 Bihar Bhojpur Arrah 
52 1510 Bihar Arwal Arwal 
53 1511 Bihar Aurangabad Aurangabad (BR) 
54 1512 Bihar Banka Banka 
55 1513 Bihar Begusarai Begusarai 
56 1514 Bihar West Champaran Bettiah 
57 1515 Bihar Kaimur Bhabua 
58 1516 Bihar Bhagalpur Bhagalpur 
59 1517 Bihar Buxar Buxar 
60 1518 Bihar Darbhanga Darbhanga 
61 1519 Bihar Gopalganj Gopalganj 
62 1520 Bihar Jamui Jamui 
63 1521 Bihar Jehanabad Jehanabad 
64 1522 Bihar Katihar Katihar 
65 1523 Bihar Khagaria Khagaria 
66 1524 Bihar Lakhisarai Lakhisarai 
67 1525 Bihar Madhepura Madhepura 
68 1526 Bihar East Champaran Motihari 
69 1527 Bihar Munger Munger 
70 1528 Bihar Muzaffarpur Muzaffarpur 
71 1529 Bihar Nawada Nawada 
72 1530 Bihar Purnea Purnea 
73 1531 Bihar Samastipur Samastipur 
74 1532 Bihar Rohtas Sasaram 
75 1533 Bihar Sheikhpura Sheikhpura 
76 1534 Bihar Siwan Siwan 
77 1535 Bihar Supaul Supaul 
78 1501 Bihar Gaya Gaya Ji 
79 1502 Bihar Patna Patna 
80 1503 Bihar Vaishali Hajipur 
81 1504 Bihar Madhubani Madhubani 
82 1505 Bihar Nalanda Nalanda 
83 1506 Bihar Sitamarhi Sitamarhi 

--- PAGE 85 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
80 
84 1507 Bihar Vaishali Vaishali 
85 1601 Chandigarh (UT) Chandigarh Chandigarh/Mohali/Panchkula 
86 1705 Chhattisgarh Balod Balod 
87 1706 Chhattisgarh Bijapur Bijapur 
88 1707 Chhattisgarh Dantewada Dantewada 
89 1708 Chhattisgarh Dhamtari Dhamtari 
90 1709 Chhattisgarh Bastar Jagdalpur 
91 1710 Chhattisgarh Janjgir-Champa Janjgir 
92 1711 Chhattisgarh Kanker Kanker 
93 1712 Chhattisgarh Kondagaon Kondagaon 
94 1713 Chhattisgarh Korba Korba 
95 1714 Chhattisgarh Mahasamund Mahasamund 
96 1719 Chhattisgarh Manendragarh-Chirmiri-
Bharatpur Manendragarh 
97 1715 Chhattisgarh Narayanpur Narayanpur 
98 1716 Chhattisgarh Raigarh Raigarh 
99 1717 Chhattisgarh Rajnandgaon Rajnandgaon 
100 1718 Chhattisgarh Sukma Sukma 
101 1701 Chhattisgarh Durg Bhilai Nagar/Durg 
102 1702 Chhattisgarh Bilaspur (CG) Bilaspur (CG) 
103 1703 Chhattisgarh Raipur Raipur 
104 1704 Chhattisgarh Sarguja Ambikapur 
105 1801 Dadra & Nagar Haveli 
(UT) Dadra & Nagar Haveli Silvassa 
106 1902 Daman & Diu (UT) Diu Diu 
107 1901 Daman & Diu (UT) Daman Daman 
108 2001 Delhi Delhi Delhi/New Delhi 
109 2102 Goa North Goa Ponda 
110 2101 Goa South Goa Panaji/Madgaon/Margao 
111 2213 Gujarat Amreli Amreli 
112 2214 Gujarat Banaskantha Banaskantha 
113 2215 Gujarat Bharuch Bharuch 
114 2216 Gujarat Botad Botad 
115 2217 Gujarat Dahod Dahod 
116 2218 Gujarat Sabarkantha Himatnagar 
117 2219 Gujarat Jamnagar Jamnagar 
118 2220 Gujarat Junagadh Junagadh 
119 2221 Gujarat Kadi Kadi 
120 2222 Gujarat Kheda Kheda 
121 2231 Gujarat Mahisagar Balasinor 
122 2223 Gujarat Mehsana Mehsana 
123 2224 Gujarat Aravalli Modasa 
124 2225 Gujarat Narmada Narmada 
125 2226 Gujarat Navsari Navsari 
126 2227 Gujarat Porbandar Porbandar 
127 2228 Gujarat Surendranagar Surendranagar 

--- PAGE 86 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
81 
128 2229 Gujarat Gir Somnath Veraval 
129 2230 Gujarat Tapi Vyara 
130 2201 Gujarat Ahmedabad Ahmedabad 
131 2202 Gujarat Vallabhvidyanagar Anand 
132 2203 Gujarat Bhavnagar Bhavnagar 
133 2204 Gujarat Gandhinagar Gandhinagar 
134 2205 Gujarat Panchmahal Godhra 
135 2206 Gujarat Patan Patan 
136 2207 Gujarat Rajkot Rajkot 
137 2208 Gujarat Surat Surat 
138 2209 Gujarat Vadodara Vadodara 
139 2210 Gujarat Valsad/Vapi Valsad/Vapi 
140 2211 Gujarat Gandhidham Gandhidham 
141 2212 Gujarat Kutch Bhuj 
142 2305 Haryana Bhiwani Bhiwani 
143 2306 Haryana Hissar Hisar 
144 2307 Haryana Jhajjar Jhajjar 
145 2308 Haryana Jind Jind 
146 2309 Haryana Kaithal Kaithal 
147 2310 Haryana Kurukshetra Kurukshetra 
148 2311 Haryana Mahendragarh Mahendragarh 
149 2312 Haryana Mewat (Nuh) Nuh (Mewat) 
150 2313 Haryana Palwal Palwal 
151 2314 Haryana Panipat Panipat 
152 2315 Haryana Rewari Rewari 
153 2316 Haryana Rohtak Rohtak 
154 2317 Haryana Sirsa Sirsa 
155 2318 Haryana Sonipat Sonipat 
156 2319 Haryana Yamuna Nagar Yamuna Nagar 
157 2301 Haryana Faridabad Faridabad 
158 2302 Haryana Gurugram Gurugram 
159 2303 Haryana Ambala Ambala 
160 2304 Haryana Karnal Karnal 
161 2403 Himachal Pradesh Bilaspur Bilaspur (HP) 
162 2404 Himachal Pradesh Chamba Chamba 
163 2405 Himachal Pradesh Kangra Kangra/Palampur 
164 2406 Himachal Pradesh Kullu Kullu 
165 2407 Himachal Pradesh Mandi Mandi 
166 2408 Himachal Pradesh Sirmaur Sirmaur/Nahan 
167 2409 Himachal Pradesh Solan Solan 
168 2410 Himachal Pradesh Una Una 
169 2401 Himachal Pradesh Hamirpur Hamirpur (HP) 
170 2402 Himachal Pradesh Shimla Shimla 
171 2505 Jammu & Kashmir Badgam/Budgam Budgam (Badgam) 
172 2506 Jammu & Kashmir Kathua Kathua 

--- PAGE 87 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
82 
173 2507 Jammu & Kashmir Kupwara Kupwara 
174 2508 Jammu & Kashmir Pulwama Pulwama 
175 2509 Jammu & Kashmir Samba Samba 
176 2510 Jammu & Kashmir Udhampur Udhampur 
177 2501 Jammu & Kashmir Jammu Jammu 
178 2502 Jammu & Kashmir Srinagar Srinagar (J & K) 
179 2503 Jammu & Kashmir Anantnag Anantnag 
180 2504 Jammu & Kashmir Baramulla Baramulla 
181 2605 Jharkhand West Singhbhum Chaibasa 
182 2606 Jharkhand Chatra Chatra 
183 2607 Jharkhand Deoghar Deoghar (JH) 
184 2608 Jharkhand Dhanbad Dhanbad 
185 2609 Jharkhand Dumka Dumka 
186 2610 Jharkhand Garhwa Garhwa 
187 2611 Jharkhand Giridih Giridih 
188 2612 Jharkhand Godda Godda 
189 2613 Jharkhand Gumla Gumla 
190 2614 Jharkhand Khunti Khunti 
191 2615 Jharkhand Koderma Koderma 
192 2616 Jharkhand Latehar Latehar 
193 2617 Jharkhand Lohardaga Lohardaga 
194 2618 Jharkhand Pakur Pakur 
195 2619 Jharkhand Palamu Palamu 
196 2620 Jharkhand Ramgarh Ramgarh 
197 2621 Jharkhand Sahibganj Sahibganj 
198 2622 Jharkhand Simdega Simdega 
199 2601 Jharkhand Bokaro Steel City Bokaro 
200 2602 Jharkhand East Singhbhum Jamshedpur 
201 2603 Jharkhand Ranchi Ranchi 
202 2604 Jharkhand Hazaribagh Hazaribagh 
203 2710 Karnataka Bagalkot Bagalkot 
204 2711 Karnataka Ballari Ballari 
205 2712 Karnataka Bengaluru- Urban Bengaluru- Urban 
206 2713 Karnataka Bidar Bidar 
207 2714 Karnataka Chamarajnagar Chamarajanagar 
208 2715 Karnataka Chikaballapur Chikkaballapura 
209 2716 Karnataka Chikmagalur Chikmagalur 
210 2717 Karnataka Chitradurga Chitradurga 
211 2718 Karnataka Gadag Gadag 
212 2719 Karnataka Hassan Hassan 
213 2720 Karnataka Haveri District Haveri 
214 2721 Karnataka Uttara Kannada Karwar 
215 2722 Karnataka Kodagu Kodagu 
216 2723 Karnataka Kolar Kolar 
217 2724 Karnataka Koppal Koppal 

--- PAGE 88 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
83 
218 2725 Karnataka Mandya Mandya 
219 2726 Karnataka Raichur Raichur 
220 2727 Karnataka Ramanagara Ramanagara 
221 2728 Karnataka Shimoga/Shivamogga Shivamoga (Shimoga)/Shivamogga 
222 2729 Karnataka Tumkur Tumakuru 
223 2730 Karnataka Vijayapura Vijayapura 
224 2731 Karnataka Yadgir Yadgir 
225 2701 Karnataka Belagavi Belagavi (Belgaum) 
226 2702 Karnataka Bengaluru- Rural Bengaluru North (Bengaluru- 
Rural)  
227 2703 Karnataka Davangere Davangere 
228 2704 Karnataka Dharwad/Hubli Dharwad 
229 2705 Karnataka Kalaburagi Kalaburagi (Gulbarga) 
230 2706 Karnataka Hubli Hubballi 
231 2707 Karnataka Dakshina Kannada Mangaluru (Mangalore) 
232 2708 Karnataka Mysore Mysuru (Mysore) 
233 2709 Karnataka Udupi Udupi/Manipal 
234 2814 Kerala Pathanamthitta Pathanamthitta 
235 2815 Kerala Kannur Piyyannur/Payyannur 
236 2816 Kerala Wayanad Wayanad 
237 2801 Kerala Alappuzha Alappuzha/Chengannur 
238 2802 Kerala Angamaly Angamaly 
239 2803 Kerala Ernakulam Ernakulam/ Muvattupuzha 
240 2804 Kerala Kannur Kannur 
241 2805 Kerala Kasaragod Kasaragod 
242 2806 Kerala Kollam Kollam 
243 2807 Kerala Kottayam Kottayam 
244 2808 Kerala Kozhikode Kozhikode (Calicut) 
245 2809 Kerala Malappuram Malappuram 
246 2810 Kerala Palakkad Palakkad 
247 2811 Kerala Thiruvananthapuram Thiruvananthapuram 
248 2812 Kerala Thrissur Thrissur 
249 2813 Kerala Idukki Idukki 
250 2901 Lakshadweep (UT) Kavaratti Kavaratti 
251 4701 Ladakh (UT) Leh Leh 
252 4702 Ladakh (UT) Kargil Kargil 
253 3007 Madhya Pradesh Ashok Nagar Ashoknagar 
254 3008 Madhya Pradesh Balaghat Balaghat 
255 3009 Madhya Pradesh Barwani Barwani 
256 3010 Madhya Pradesh Betul Betul 
257 3011 Madhya Pradesh Bhind Bhind 
258 3012 Madhya Pradesh Chhatarpur Chhatarpur 
259 3013 Madhya Pradesh Chhindwara Chhindwara 
260 3014 Madhya Pradesh Damoh Damoh 
261 3015 Madhya Pradesh Datia Datia 

--- PAGE 89 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
84 
262 3017 Madhya Pradesh Dewas Dewas 
263 3018 Madhya Pradesh Dhar Dhar 
264 3019 Madhya Pradesh Guna Guna 
265 3020 Madhya Pradesh Hoshangabad Narmadapuram (Hoshangabad) 
266 3021 Madhya Pradesh Khandwa Khandwa 
267 3022 Madhya Pradesh Khargone (West Nimar) Khargone (West Nimar) 
268 3023 Madhya Pradesh Mandsaur Mandsaur 
269 3024 Madhya Pradesh Morena Morena 
270 3025 Madhya Pradesh Neemuch Neemuch 
271 3026 Madhya Pradesh Rajgarh Rajgarh 
272 3027 Madhya Pradesh Ratlam Ratlam 
273 3028 Madhya Pradesh Sagar Sagar 
274 3029 Madhya Pradesh Satna Satna 
275 3030 Madhya Pradesh Singrauli Singrauli 
276 3031 Madhya Pradesh Vidisha Vidisha 
277 3001 Madhya Pradesh Bhopal Bhopal 
278 3002 Madhya Pradesh Gwalior Gwalior 
279 3003 Madhya Pradesh Indore Indore 
280 3004 Madhya Pradesh Jabalpur Jabalpur 
281 3005 Madhya Pradesh Ujjain Ujjain 
282 3006 Madhya Pradesh Rewa Rewa 
283 3123 Maharashtra Bhandara Bhandara 
284 3124 Maharashtra Chandrapur Chandrapur 
285 3125 Maharashtra Gadchiroli Gadchiroli 
286 3126 Maharashtra Gondia Gondia 
287 3127 Maharashtra Nandurbar Nandurbar 
288 3128 Maharashtra Osmanabad Dharashiv (Osmanabad) 
289 3129 Maharashtra Palghar Palghar 
290 3130 Maharashtra Parbhani Parbhani 
291 3131 Maharashtra Raigad Raigad 
292 3132 Maharashtra Wardha Wardha 
293 3133 Maharashtra Washim Washim 
294 3134 Maharashtra Yavatmal Yavatmal 
295 3101 Maharashtra Ahmednagar Ahilyanagar (Ahmednagar) 
296 3102 Maharashtra Akola Akola 
297 3103 Maharashtra Amravati Amravati 
298 3104 Maharashtra Aurangabad Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar 
(Aurangabad [MR]) 
299 3105 Maharashtra Beed Beed 
300 3106 Maharashtra Buldhana Buldhana 
301 3107 Maharashtra Jalgaon Jalgaon 
302 3108 Maharashtra Kolhapur Kolhapur 
303 3109 Maharashtra Latur Latur 
304 3110 Maharashtra Mumbai City Mumbai 
305 3111 Maharashtra Nagpur Nagpur 

--- PAGE 90 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
85 
306 3112 Maharashtra Nanded Nanded 
307 3113 Maharashtra Nashik Nashik 
308 3114 Maharashtra Mumbai City Navi Mumbai 
309 3115 Maharashtra Pune Pune 
310 3116 Maharashtra Satara Satara 
311 3117 Maharashtra Solapur Solapur 
312 3118 Maharashtra Thane Thane 
313 3119 Maharashtra Sangli Sangli 
314 3120 Maharashtra Sindhudurg Sindhudurg 
315 3121 Maharashtra Ratnagiri Ratnagiri 
316 3122 Maharashtra Dhule Dhule 
317 3135 Maharashtra Malegaon Malegaon 
318 3202 Manipur Chandel Chandel 
319 3203 Manipur Churachandpur Churachandpur 
320 3201 Manipur Imphal Imphal 
321 3302 Meghalaya East Khasi Hills East Khasi Hills 
322 3304 Meghalaya West Jaintia Hills Jowai 
323 3305 Meghalaya West Garo Hills Tura 
324 3303 Meghalaya Ri Bhoi Ri Bhoi 
325 3301 Meghalaya Shillong Shillong 
326 3401 Mizoram Aizawl Aizawl 
327 3501 Nagaland Dimapur Dimapur 
328 3502 Nagaland Kohima Kohima 
329 3617 Odisha Baragarh Bargarh  
330 3618 Odisha Mayurbhanj Baripada/Mayurbanj 
331 3619 Odisha Bhadrak Bhadrak 
332 3620 Odisha Dhenkanal Dhenkanal 
333 3621 Odisha Jagatsinghpur Jagatsinghpur 
334 3622 Odisha Jajpur Jajpur 
335 3623 Odisha Jharsuguda Jharsuguda 
336 3624 Odisha Kendrapara Kendrapara 
337 3625 Odisha Nawarangpur Nabarangpur (Nawarangpur) 
338 3626 Odisha Nuapada Nuapada 
339 3601 Odisha Angul Angul 
340 3602 Odisha Balasore Balasore (Baleswar) 
341 3603 Odisha Ganjam Brahmapur (Berhampur) / Ganjam 
District 
342 3604 Odisha Khordha Bhubaneswar 
343 3605 Odisha Cuttack Cuttack 
344 3606 Odisha Sundergarh Rourkela 
345 3607 Odisha Sambalpur Sambalpur 
346 3608 Odisha Balangir Balangir 
347 3609 Odisha Kalahandi Bhawanipatna/ Kalahandi District 
348 3610 Odisha Kendujhar (Keonjhar) Kendujhar (Keonjhar) 
349 3611 Odisha Koraput Jeypore (Odisha) 

--- PAGE 91 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
86 
350 3612 Odisha Malkangiri Malkangiri 
351 3613 Odisha Gajapati Paralakhemundi (Gajapati) 
352 3614 Odisha Kandhamal Phulbani (Kandhamal) 
353 3615 Odisha Rayagada Rayagada 
354 3616 Odisha Puri Puri 
355 3627 Odisha Rairangpur Rairangpur 
356 3700 Puducherry (UT) Puducherry Karaikal 
357 3702 Puducherry (UT) Puducherry Yanam 
358 3703 Puducherry (UT) Puducherry Mahe 
359 3701 Puducherry (UT) Puducherry Puducherry 
360 3806 Punjab Faridkot Faridkot 
361 3807 Punjab Fazilka Fazilka 
362 3808 Punjab Firozpur Firozpur 
363 3809 Punjab Gurdaspur Gurdaspur 
364 3810 Punjab Hoshiarpur Hoshiarpur 
365 3811 Punjab Moga Moga 
366 3812 Punjab Pathankot Pathankot 
367 3813 Punjab Rupnagar Rupnagar 
368 3814 Punjab Sahibzada Ajit Singh 
Nagar Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar 
369 3815 Punjab Sangrur Sangrur 
370 3816 Punjab Sri Muktsar Sahib Sri Muktsar Sahib 
371 3801 Punjab Amritsar Amritsar 
372 3802 Punjab Bhatinda Bhatinda 
373 3803 Punjab Jalandhar Jalandhar 
374 3804 Punjab Ludhiana Ludhiana 
375 3805 Punjab Patiala Patiala/Fatehgarh Sahib 
376 3907 Rajasthan Alwar Alwar 
377 3908 Rajasthan Baran Baran 
378 3909 Rajasthan Barmer Barmer 
379 3910 Rajasthan Bharatpur Bharatpur 
380 3911 Rajasthan Bhilwara Bhilwara 
381 3912 Rajasthan Chittorgarh Chittorgarh 
382 3913 Rajasthan Churu Churu 
383 3914 Rajasthan Dausa Dausa 
384 3915 Rajasthan Dholpur Dholpur 
385 3916 Rajasthan Hanumangarh Hanumangarh 
386 3917 Rajasthan Jaisalmer Jaisalmer 
387 3918 Rajasthan Jhunjhunu Jhunjhunu 
388 3919 Rajasthan Karauli Karauli 
389 3920 Rajasthan Nagaur Nagaur 
390 3921 Rajasthan Pali Pali 
391 3922 Rajasthan Sawai Madhopur Sawai Madhopur 
392 3923 Rajasthan Sikar Sikar 
393 3924 Rajasthan Sirohi Sirohi 

--- PAGE 92 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
87 
394 3925 Rajasthan Sriganganagar Sriganganagar 
395 3901 Rajasthan Ajmer Ajmer 
396 3902 Rajasthan Bikaner Bikaner 
397 3903 Rajasthan Jaipur Jaipur 
398 3904 Rajasthan Jodhpur Jodhpur 
399 3905 Rajasthan Kota Kota 
400 3906 Rajasthan Udaipur Udaipur 
401 4002 Sikkim West Sikkim Gyalshing (West Sikkim) 
402 4001 Sikkim Gangtok Gangtok 
403 4119 Tamil Nadu Ariyalur Ariyalur 
404 4120 Tamil Nadu Dharmapuri Dharmapuri 
405 4121 Tamil Nadu Erode Erode 
406 4122 Tamil Nadu Krishnagiri Krishnagiri 
407 4123 Tamil Nadu Nagapattinam Nagapattinam 
408 4124 Tamil Nadu Pudukkottai Pudukkottai 
409 4125 Tamil Nadu Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram 
410 4126 Tamil Nadu Sivaganga Sivaganga 
411 4127 Tamil Nadu Thoothukudi Thoothukudi 
412 4128 Tamil Nadu Tiruvarur Tiruvarur 
413 4129 Tamil Nadu Tiruvannamalai Tiruvannamalai 
414 4130 Tamil Nadu Nilgiris Udhagamandalam 
415 4131 Tamil Nadu Villupuram Viluppuram 
416 4101 Tamil Nadu Chennai Chennai 
417 4102 Tamil Nadu Coimbatore Coimbatore 
418 4103 Tamil Nadu Cuddalore Cuddalore 
419 4104 Tamil Nadu Kanchipuram Kanchipuram 
420 4105 Tamil Nadu Karur Karur 
421 4106 Tamil Nadu Madurai Madurai 
422 4107 Tamil Nadu Kanyakumari Kanyakumari/Nagercoil 
423 4108 Tamil Nadu Namakkal Namakkal 
424 4109 Tamil Nadu Salem Salem 
425 4110 Tamil Nadu Thanjavur Thanjavur 
426 4111 Tamil Nadu Thiruvallur Thiruvallur 
427 4112 Tamil Nadu Tiruchirappalli Tiruchirappalli 
428 4113 Tamil Nadu Tirunelveli Tirunelveli 
429 4114 Tamil Nadu Vellore Vellore 
430 4115 Tamil Nadu Chengalpet Chengalpattu (Chengalpet) 
431 4116 Tamil Nadu Virudhanagar Virudhunagar 
432 4117 Tamil Nadu Dindigul Dindigul 
433 4118 Tamil Nadu Tiruppur Tiruppur 
434 4209 Telangana Adilabad Adilabad 
435 4210 Telangana Asifabad Kumuram Bheem Asifabad 
(Asifabad) 
436 4211 Telangana Bhupalapally Bhupalapally 
437 4212 Telangana Jogulamba Gadwal Gadwal 

--- PAGE 93 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
88 
438 4213 Telangana Jagtial Jagtial 
439 4214 Telangana Jangaon Jangaon 
440 4215 Telangana Bhadradri Kothagudem Kothagudem 
441 4216 Telangana Mahabubabad Mahabubabad 
442 4217 Telangana Mancherial Mancherial 
443 4218 Telangana Medak Medak 
444 4219 Telangana Medchal Medchal 
445 4220 Telangana Nalgonda Nalgonda 
446 4221 Telangana Nizamabad Nizamabad 
447 4222 Telangana Siddipet Siddipet 
448 4223 Telangana Suryapet Suryapet 
449 4224 Telangana Vikarabad Vikarabad 
450 4201 Telangana Ranga Reddy Hyderabad/Secunderabad 
451 4202 Telangana Karimnagar Karimnagar 
452 4203 Telangana Khammam Khammam 
453 4204 Telangana Ranga Reddy Ranga Reddy 
454 4205 Telangana Warangal (Rural) Warangal 
455 4206 Telangana Sangareddy Sangareddy 
456 4207 Telangana Mahbubnagar Mahbubnagar 
457 4208 Telangana Hayathnagar Hayathnagar 
458 4302 Tripura Dhalai Dhalai 
459 4301 Tripura West Tripura Agartala 
460 4417 Uttar Pradesh Ambedkar Nagar Ambedkar Nagar 
461 4418 Uttar Pradesh Amethi Amethi 
462 4419 Uttar Pradesh Azamgarh Azamgarh 
463 4420 Uttar Pradesh Sambhal Bahjoi 
464 4421 Uttar Pradesh Bahraich Bahraich 
465 4422 Uttar Pradesh Ballia Ballia 
466 4423 Uttar Pradesh Balrampur Balrampur 
467 4424 Uttar Pradesh Banda Banda 
468 4425 Uttar Pradesh Barabanki Barabanki 
469 4426 Uttar Pradesh Basti Basti 
470 4427 Uttar Pradesh Bijnor Bijnor 
471 4428 Uttar Pradesh Budaun Budaun 
472 4429 Uttar Pradesh Bulandshahr Bulandshahr 
473 4430 Uttar Pradesh Chandauli Chandauli 
474 4431 Uttar Pradesh Chitrakoot Chitrakoot 
475 4432 Uttar Pradesh Deoria Deoria 
476 4433 Uttar Pradesh Etawah Etawah 
477 4434 Uttar Pradesh Firozabad Firozabad 
478 4435 Uttar Pradesh Ghazipur Ghazipur 
479 4436 Uttar Pradesh Gonda Gonda 
480 4437 Uttar Pradesh Hapur (Panchsheel 
Nagar) Hapur (Panchsheel Nagar) 
481 4438 Uttar Pradesh Hardoi Hardoi 

--- PAGE 94 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
89 
482 4439 Uttar Pradesh Hathras Hathras 
483 4440 Uttar Pradesh Jalaun Jalaun (Orai) 
484 4441 Uttar Pradesh Jaunpur Jaunpur 
485 4442 Uttar Pradesh Kaushambi Kaushambi 
486 4443 Uttar Pradesh Kushinagar Kushinagar 
487 4444 Uttar Pradesh Lakhimpur Kheri Lakhimpur Kheri 
488 4445 Uttar Pradesh Lalitpur Lalitpur 
489 4446 Uttar Pradesh Mainpuri Mainpuri 
490 4447 Uttar Pradesh Mau Mau 
491 4448 Uttar Pradesh Mirzapur Mirzapur 
492 4449 Uttar Pradesh Moradabad Moradabad 
493 4450 Uttar Pradesh Muzaffarnagar Muzaffarnagar 
494 4451 Uttar Pradesh Siddharthnagar Naugarh/ Siddharthnagar District 
495 4452 Uttar Pradesh Pratapgarh Pratapgarh 
496 4453 Uttar Pradesh Rai Bareilly Rae Bareli 
497 4454 Uttar Pradesh Rampur Rampur 
498 4455 Uttar Pradesh Saharanpur Saharanpur 
499 4456 Uttar Pradesh Shahjahanpur Shahjahanpur 
500 4457 Uttar Pradesh Shravasti Shravasti 
501 4458 Uttar Pradesh Sonbhadra Sonbhadra 
502 4459 Uttar Pradesh Sultanpur Sultanpur 
503 4460 Uttar Pradesh Unnao Unnao 
504 4401 Uttar Pradesh Agra Agra 
505 4402 Uttar Pradesh Prayagraj Prayagraj 
506 4403 Uttar Pradesh Bareilly Bareilly 
507 4404 Uttar Pradesh Ghaziabad Ghaziabad 
508 4405 Uttar Pradesh Gorakhpur Gorakhpur 
509 4406 Uttar Pradesh Jhansi Jhansi 
510 4407 Uttar Pradesh Kanpur Rural Kanpur 
511 4408 Uttar Pradesh Lucknow Lucknow 
512 4409 Uttar Pradesh Meerut Meerut 
513 4410 Uttar Pradesh Gautam Buddha Nagar Noida/Greater Noida 
514 4411 Uttar Pradesh Varanasi Varanasi 
515 4412 Uttar Pradesh Fatehpur Fatehpur 
516 4413 Uttar Pradesh Mathura Mathura 
517 4414 Uttar Pradesh Sitapur Sitapur 
518 4415 Uttar Pradesh Ayodhya Ayodhya 
519 4416 Uttar Pradesh Aligarh Aligarh 
520 4504 Uttarakhand Almora Almora 
521 4511 Uttarakhand Chamoli Chamoli 
522 4505 Uttarakhand Haridwar Haridwar 
523 4506 Uttarakhand Nainital Nainital 
524 4507 Uttarakhand Tehri Garhwal New Tehri 
525 4508 Uttarakhand Pantnagar Pantnagar 
526 4509 Uttarakhand Pauri Garhwal Pauri Garhwal 

--- PAGE 95 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
90 
527 4512 Uttarakhand Pitthoragarh Pitthoragarh 
528 4510 Uttarakhand Udham Singh Nagar Udham Singh Nagar 
529 4513 Uttarakhand Uttarkashi Uttarkashi 
530 4501 Uttarakhand Dehradun Dehradun 
531 4502 Uttarakhand Haldwani Haldwani 
532 4503 Uttarakhand Roorkee Roorkee 
533 4610 West Bengal Bankura Bankura 
534 4611 West Bengal Darjeeling Darjeeling 
535 4612 West Bengal Jalpaiguri Jalpaiguri 
536 4613 West Bengal Nadia Kalyani 
537 4614 West Bengal Malda Malda 
538 4615 West Bengal Murshidabad Murshidabad 
539 4616 West Bengal Cooch Behar Nadia 
540 4617 West Bengal Purba Medinipur Purba Medinipur 
541 4618 West Bengal South 24 Parganas South 24 Parganas 
542 4619 West Bengal Birbhum Suri 
543 4601 West Bengal North 24 Parganas North 24 Parganas 
544 4602 West Bengal Paschim Bardhaman Asansol 
545 4603 West Bengal Purba Bardhaman Burdwan (Bardhaman) 
546 4604 West Bengal Durgapur Durgapur 
547 4605 West Bengal Hooghly Hooghly 
548 4606 West Bengal Howrah Howrah 
549 4607 West Bengal Paschim Medinipur Kharagpur 
550 4608 West Bengal Kolkata Kolkata 
551 4609 West Bengal Siliguri Siliguri 
552 4620 West Bengal Balurghat Balurghat 
553 9901 Outside India Kuwait City Kuwait City 
554 9902 Outside India Dubai Dubai 
555 9903 Outside India Abu Dhabi Abu Dhabi 
556 9906 Outside India Doha Doha 
557 9907 Outside India Kathmandu Kathmandu 
558 9910 Outside India Manama Manama 
559 9911 Outside India Muscat Muscat 
560 9912 Outside India Riyadh Riyadh 
561 9913 Outside India Sharjah Sharjah 
562 9914 Outside India Singapore Singapore 
563 9904 Outside India Bangkok Bangkok 
564 9905 Outside India Colombo Colombo 
565 9908 Outside India Kuala Lampur Kuala Lampur 
566 9909 Outside India Lagos Lagos 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 96 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
91 
 Appendix-VI 
Embassy Certificate of Foreign Candidate (For NRI Candidates) 
(ON THE LETTERHEAD OF THE CONCERNED INDIAN DIPLOMATIC MISSION) 
 
F. No. : ________________                       Date: ___________ 
TO WHOMSOEVER IT MAY CONCERN  
This is to certify that Mr. /Mrs. / Ms. ________________________ S/o / W/o / D/o__________________  
holder of Passport No. ______________ issued on ______________ at 
____________________________ valid upto ____________ presently residing at 
_____________________________________________________ has stayed abroad for more than 182 
days during the last financial year and enjoys the status of Non-Resident Indian (NRI) for the period from 
_______________ till date. He may be extended all courtesies and facilitie s, as admissible to the Non -
Resident Indians (NRIs). 
This certificate is issued for his Son/ Daughter __________________________, for seeking admission in 
India under NRI Quota. 
The validity of this Certificate is for six months only.  
 
PLACE: 
DATE : 
SIGNATURE : 
NAME :     
DESIGNATION:  
SEAL : 
(OF THE ISSUING AUTHORITY)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 97 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
92 
 
Appendix-VII 
 
*Documentary Proof of Citizenship 
(For Foreign and OCI Candidates) 
 
*Scanned copy of the first and last page of the Passport wherein the Citizenship /Nationality of the 
Candidate, as well as the date of issue, Validity Period, place of issue, and Issuing Authority of the 
Passport, are clearly mentioned. 
OR 
* Citizenship Certificate issued by the Competent Authority in the Country of Nationality of the Candidate, 
wherein the Citizenship /Nationality of the Candidate, date of issue, Validity Period, place of issue, and 
Issuing Authority, are clearly mentioned. 
OR 
* Any other Document issued by a Government Authority in the Country of Nationality of the Candidate 
(including OCI Card issued by the MHA or concerned Indian Diplomatic Mission in case of OC I 
Candidate only), wherein the Citizenship /Nationality of the Candidate, date of issue, Validity Period, 
place of issue and Issuing Authority of the Document, are clearly mentioned. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 98 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
93 
 
Appendix- VIII 
Procedure for Online Payment of Fee and Helpline for Payment Related Queries 
 
After completing Step 2 of the Online Application Form, the candidate may remit the examination 
fee (Step 3) in the following manner: 
▪ Check the validity of the Debit/ Credit Card and keep it ready with you while logging on to 
the website for submitting Application Form. The candidates should enter the information 
asked for and make payment through a Debit/ Credit Card.  
▪ Through Net Banking, check the balance in your account and keep all credentials ready 
with you while logging on to the website for making payment. The candidates should log in 
with his/her credentials of net banking and make payments accordingly. 
▪ For payment through a UPI Service, check whether there is a requisite balance in the Bank 
Account / Wallet to which the concerned UPI is linked. 
 
Prescribed Examination Fee (please see the Information at a Glance) can be paid through 
any Bank/Payment Gateway in any Payment Mode [service/processing charges per 
transaction and GST applicable thereon @ 18 % are to be borne by the candidate]. 
S. 
N
o 
Mode of 
Paymen
t 
HDFC Bank State Bank of India Canara Bank ICICI Bank 
1 Net 
Banking 
HDFC NIL Charge SBI Rs 
5.00+G
ST 
Other 
Banks 
(Including 
Canara 
Bank) 
Rs.13 + 
GST 
ICICI NIL Charge 
Other 
Banks 
NIL Charge Other 
Banks 
HDFC, 
ICICI, 
SBI, AXIS 
Rs.17 + 
GST 
Other 
Banks 
4.00 + GST 
2 Debit 
Cards 
HDFC or 
Other 
Banks 
Transacti
on up to 
Rs 2000/- 
0
% 
NIL Charge Visa/Mast
er 
Transacti
on up to 
Rs.2000/- 
0.40% + 
GST 
ICICI or 
Other 
Banks 
Transacti
on upto 
Rs 2000/- 
0 % 
Transacti
on above 
Rs.2000/- 
0.85% + 
GST 
Transacti
on above 
Rs 2000/- 
0
% 
Rupay NIL 
Charge 
Transacti
on 
above 
Rs 2000/- 
0.5 
% + 
GST 
 
3 Credit 
Cards 
Domestic NIL Charge Domestic 0.80% + 
GST 
Domestic 1.10% + 
GST 
Domestic 0.40% of 
Transaction value 
Internation
al 
NIL Charge Internatio
nal 
3.50% 
of Fee+ 
GST 
(Minimu
m Rs 
11/-) 
Internatio
nal 
2.35%of 
Transaction value 
4 Unified 
Payment 
Interface 
(UPI) 
NIL Charge NIL Charge Unified 
Payment 
Interface 
(UPI) 
NIL 
Charge 
ICICI or 
other 
banks 
Transacti
on upto 
Rs 2000/- 
0 % 
Transacti
on 
above 
Rs 2000/- 
0 % 
+ 
GST 
 

--- PAGE 99 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
94 
Note: In case, the fee payment status is not ‘OK’, or the Confirmation Page of the Online 
Application is not generated after fee payment (completion of Step 3) the candidate is advised to 
contact the helpline number/email of the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway Integrator, as 
mentioned below:- 
(a) If Paying through State Bank of India (SBI): 
 
Level Name Email ID Contact Number 
1 Helpdesk3 sbi.00727@sbi.co.in 011-26391804 
2 Customer Care  agmcustomer.Ihodel@sbi.co.in 1800112211 
4 Through SMS UNHAPPY (add text) 8008202020 
 
(b) If Paying through Canara Bank: 
 
Level Name Email ID 
1 Helpdesk 
pgsupport@billdesk.com; 
dssrosdel@canarabank.com; 
tmcodel@canarabank.com; 
cb0268@canarabank.com;  
2 Complaint Management Services 
mailto:genadmnronoida@canarabank.com 
pgsupport@billdesk.com 
dssrosdel@canarabank.com; 
tmcodel@canarabank.com; 
cb0268@canarabank.com 
3 Customer Care  
pgsupport@billdesk.com 
dssrosdel@canarabank.com; 
tmcodel@canarabank.com; 
cb0268@canarabank.com 
 
(c) If Paying through HDFC Bank: 
(d)  If Paying through ICICI Bank: 
 
(e)  NTA Helpdesk Contact details (in case the payment related issues are not resolved 
through the above -mentioned Helplines of the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway 
Integrator): 
 
Email: neetug2026@nta.ac.in 
Phone No.: 011-40759000 
  
Level Name Email ID Contact Number 
1 PGService pg.service@hdfcbank.com  
2 Pradeep Yadav pradeep.yadav10@hdfcbank.com 9625622301 
3 Vivek Chandra vivek.chandra@hdfcbank.com 7838748226 
Level Name  Email ID   Contact Number  
1. 
Customer support 
Helpline number 
(9AM to 6PM) 
pgsupport.ind@worldline.com 1800222884 
(Pls select option 3) 

--- PAGE 100 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
95 
Procedure to raise payment-related Grievance:   
After (successful completion of Step 3, the Confirmation Page of the Application Form, should 
be downloaded and a printout of the same may be retained for future reference. The 
Confirmation Page of the online Application Form could be generated only after successful 
payment by the Candidate. 
In case the Confirmation Page is not generated after payment of the prescribed fee, then the 
candidate should approach the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway integrator (in the helpline 
number and email given above in the Information Bulletin), for ensuring the successful payment.  
In spite of the above, if a successful transaction is not reflected on the Portal, the candidate may 
contact NTA Helpline. If the payment issue is still not resolved, the candidate may pay a second 
time.  
However, any duplicate payment received from the candidate by NTA in course of said 
transactions will be refunded through the same payment mode through which the duplicate 
payment is received, after fee reconciliation by NTA 
Information to be provided by the Candidate while raising any payment related query/grievance 
through email/Helplines: - 
a. Name of the Bank and /or Payment Gateway. 
b. Date and time of the transaction 
c. Transaction Number 
d. Bank Reference Number   
e. Proof of transaction 
 
Screenshot from the payment portal (in case of payment failure). 
  

--- PAGE 101 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
96 
Appendix-IX 
Replica of Application Form  
 
Step 1: Login page for new candidates and already existing candidates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 102 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
97 
 
 


--- PAGE 103 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
98 
Step 3: Personal details page of the application form 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 104 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
99 
Step 4: Review page of the online registration form 
 
 
              
 
  


--- PAGE 105 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
100 
Step 5: SMS authentication page of the online application form 
 
 
Step 6: Personal credentials page in the application form 
 
 


--- PAGE 106 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
101 
Step 7: Disability Details 
 
 
Step 8: Mode of Identity verification page of the candidate application form (With AADHAAR) 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 107 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
102 
Step 8.1: Mode of Identity verification page of the candidate application form (Other Than 
AADHAAR) 
 
 
 
 
Step 9: Entering the APAAR ID of the candidate 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 108 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
103 
Step 10: Examination centre and question paper medium details page of the application form. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 109 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
104 
Step 11: Entering the qualification details of the candidate 
 
 
 
Step 12: Entering Additional Details pertaining to twin status and previous NEET UG examinations 
 


--- PAGE 110 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
105 
Step 13: Entering the Emergency Contact Details of the parents or guardians 
 
 
 
 
Step 14: Capture of Live Photograph by Candidate 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 111 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
106 
Step 15: Uploading of necessary documents by the Candidate 
 
 
 
 
Step 16: Review page of the online application form 
 
  


--- PAGE 112 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
107 
 
Step 17: Authentication of the registered E-mail ID 
 
 
 
Step 18: Fee payment by the candidate 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 113 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
108 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 114 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
109 
Appendix-X 
Important Points to Note 
Candidates are required to go through the Information Bulletin carefully and acquaint 
themselves with the following: - 
i. Candidates can apply for NEET (UG) - 2026 “Online” only.  No offline application will 
be entertained. 
ii. Information Bulletin can be downloaded from the website www.nta.ac.in/, 
https://neet.nta.nic.in/   
iii. Candidates must retain the following documents with them as reference for future 
correspondence: 
a) Printouts of the Confirmation Page of Online Application. 
b) Proof of fee paid (i.e. Bank transaction details supported by confirmation page). 
c) At least 4-6copies of identical passport size and 4-6 postcard size Photographs 
which were scanned and uploaded on the Online Application. 
d) Copy of the system generated Self Declaration in respect of candidates from U.T 
of J&K who have opted for seats under 15% All India Quota. 
 
iv. Candidates must ensure that mobile numbers, e-mail ID filled in the Online Application form 
are their own or their parents only. The NTA will communicate by SMS and/or e-mail on the 
given mobile number and e-mail ID respectively only. 
v. The NTA will not be responsible for non -receipt of the latest information due to incorrect 
mobile number, e -mail ID, and correspondence address filled in the Online Application 
Form.   
vi. The fee can be submitted through Online Mode i.e. Debit/ Credit card and Net -
banking/UPI using State Bank of India/Canara Bank/ICICI Bank/HDFC Bank:  
 
● Check the validity of the Debit/ Credit Card and keep it ready with you while logging 
on to the website for submitting the application form. The candidate should enter the 
information asked for and make payment through a Debit/ Credit Card.  
● For using Net -banking/UPI, check the balance in your account and keep all 
credentials ready with you while logging on to the website for submitting an 
application form. Candidate should login with his/her credentials of Net-banking and 
make payment through Net-banking/UPI.  
vii. Final Submission of Online Application will remain incomplete and unsuccessful in case of 
failure to complete Step 3 of Online Application, i.e., non -payment of fee. Generation of 
the confirmation page confirms that the Application has been submitted 
successfully. The non -generation of confirmation page indicates that the process of 
payment of the fee has not been completed and thus application has not been submitted 
successfully. 
viii. Candidates must preserve the Admit Cards till their admission to Undergraduate Medical 
Courses. 
ix. Ensure that correct data is submitted in the online application. Any correction pertaining to 
the photograph and signature of the candidate will be intimated through e -mail/SMS and 
the same will be available in the candidate’s login account.  Other permissible corrections 
can also be carried through log -in account only during the schedule fixed for the same.  
Candidates may ensure clear photographs and signatures are uploaded. Thereafter, no 

--- PAGE 115 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
110 
request for correction(s) will be entertained except when the window for correction in all 
fields opens. 
x. The eligibility of the candidate will be determined on the last date of submission of the 
online Application Form.   
xi. NEET (UG) - 2026 will be held on 03 May 2026 (Sunday). 
xii. NEET (UG) - 2026 will be held in a single stage and would be an objective type test. 
xiii. Indian Nationals, Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), Overseas Citizens of India (OCI)/Foreign 
Nationals are eligible to appear in NEET (UG) - 2026. 
xiv. Only one application should be submitted by a candidate. 
xv. Particulars filled in Application Form need to be chosen carefully as options once exercised 
cannot be changed later including Examination Centre city and Medium of Question Paper 
except when the window for correction in all fields opens. 
xvi. Allotment of Centre is made by computer and there is no human intervention.  Under no 
circumstances, the allotted Centre shall be changed by the NTA. 
xvii. The candidates can download Admit Card for the Examination from the website 
https://neet.nta.nic.in/ . 
xviii. The candidates can download the Result, Marks cum Rank Sheet from the website 
https://neet.nta.nic.in/. 
xix. For the latest updates, candidates must regularly visit the website https://neet.nta.nic.in/, 
https://www.mohfw.gov.in/&https://mcc.nic.in/for MBBS/BDS Courses and 
https://www.ayush.gov.in/&https://aaccc.gov.in/for BAMS/BSMS/BUMS/BHMS 
Courses and the websites of concerned States/Institutions till the completion of the final 
round of counselling. 
xx. Candidates should fill up the online form and pay the fee well in advance to avoid the last-
minute rush on the server.  No request regarding non-submission of application/fee (due to 
any reason) will be entertained. 
xxi. Candidates must note that mere deduction of fee from the bank account is not a proof of 
fee payment. The payment should be supported by an updated fee in the account of the 
candidate.  The generation of confirmation page is the proof of successful submissi on of 
the Application Form. 
xxii. The result of the NEET (UG) - 2026 may be utilized by other entities of Central/State 
Governments for admission purposes in accordance with their rules and in consultation 
with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India.   
xxiii. Indian Citizens/ Overseas Citizens of India intending to pursue MBBS/ BDS from a 
foreign Medical / Dental Institute need to qualify for NEET (UG) - 2026. 
Candidates are advised to regularly visit the NTA website for the latest updates.  NTA will 
communicate all instructions through the website only. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 116 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
111 
 
Annexure-I 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 117 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
112 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 118 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 119 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
114 
Annexure-II 
(Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India Office memorandum No F. No. 34-02/ 
2015- DD-III dated 29 August 2018)  
Certificate regarding physical limitation in an examinee to write 
This to certify that, I have examined Mr/ Ms/ Mrs ________________________ (Name of the candidate 
with disability), a person with __________________ (nature and percentage of disability as mentioned in 
the certificate of disability), S/ o/ D/ o ___________ _____ a resident of ______________________ 
(Village/ District/ State) and to state that he/ she has physical limitation which hampers his/her writing 
capabilities owing to his/ her disability.  
Signature  
Chief Medical Officer/ Civil Surgeon/ Medical Superintendent of a  
Government health care institution  
Name & Designation.  
Name of Government Hospital/Health Care Centre with Seal  
Place:  
Date:  
Note:- Certificate should be given by a specialist of the relevant stream/ disability (eg. Visual 
impairment — Ophthalmologist, Locomotor disability — Orthopedic specialist/ PMR). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 120 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
115 
Annexure-III 
 
(More than 40%) 
LETTER OF UNDERTAKING FOR USING OWN SCRIBE 
I ____________________, a candidate with __________________ (nature of the disability) appearing 
for ______________________________________(name of the examination) bearing Roll No. 
___________________________ at _______________________ (name of the centre ) in the District 
____________________, ____________________________ (name of the State). My educational 
qualification is _____________________.  
2. I do hereby state that __________________________ (name of the scribe) will provide the service of 
scribe /reader / lab assistant for the undersigned for taking the aforementioned examination.  
3. I do hereby undertake that his qualification is ______________________. In case, subsequently it is 
found that his qualification is not as declared by the undersigned and is beyond my qualification. I shall 
forfeit my right to the post and claims relating thereto.  
(Signature of the candidate)  
(counter signature by the parent/guardian, if the candidate is minor)  
Place:  
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 121 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
116 
 
Annexure-IV 
(Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India F. No. 29-6/2019-DD-III dated 10 August 
2022)  
Certificate for person with specified disability covered under the definition of Section 2 (s) of the 
RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. persons 
having less than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing  
This is to certify that, we have examined Mr/Ms/Mrs …………. (Name of the candidate), S/o /D/o 
……………………, a resident of ……………… (Vill/PO/ PS/ District/ State), aged …………….. yrs, a 
person with ……………………. (nature of disability/condition), and to state that he/ she  has limitation 
which hampers his/her writing capability owing to his/her above condition. He/she requires support of 
scribe for writing the examination.  
2. The above candidate uses aids and assistive device such as prosthetics & orthotics, hearing aid (name 
to be specified) which is /are essential for the candidate to appear at the examination with the assistance 
of scribe.  
3. This certificate is issued only for the purpose of appearing in written examinations conducted by 
recruitment agencies as well as academic institutions and is valid upto __________ (it is valid for 
maximum period of six months or less as may be certified by the medical authority)  
 
Signature of Medical Authority  
(Signature & 
Name) 
(Signature & Name) (Signature 
& Name) 
(Signature & 
Name) 
(Signature & 
Name) 
Orthopedic/PMR 
specialist 
Clinical Psychologist/Rehabilitation 
Psychologist/Psychiatrist/Special 
Educator 
Neurologist  
(if 
available) 
Occupational 
therapist (if 
available) 
Other Expert, 
as 
nominated by 
the 
Chairperson (if 
any) 
(Signature & Name) 
Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Officer………Chairperson 
 
Name of Government Hospital/Health Care Centre with Seal  
Place:  
Date: 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 122 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
117 
 
Annexure – V 
(Less than 40%) 
(Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India F. No. 29-6/2019-DD-III  
dated 10 August 2022) 
 
Letter of Undertaking by the person with specified disability covered under the definition of 
Section 2 (s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the 
said Act, i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing  
 
I ____________________, a candidate with __________________ (nature of disability/condition) 
appearing for the ______________________(name of the examination) bearing Roll No. 
___________________________ at _______________________ (name of the centre) in t he District 
____________________,  ____________________________ (name of the State). My educational 
qualification is _____________________.  
2. I do hereby state that __________________________ (name of the scribe) will provide the service 
of scribe for the undersigned for taking the aforementioned  examination.  
3. I do hereby undertake that his qualification is ______________________. In case, subsequently it is 
found that his qualification is not as declared by the undersigned and is beyond my qualification,  I shall 
forfeit my right to the post or certificate/diploma/degree and claims relating thereto.  
(Signature of the candidate)  
(counter signature by the parent/guardian, if the candidate is minor)  
Place:  
Date: 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 123 ---
           INFORMATION BULLETIN NEET (UG)-2026 
 
118 
Annexure-VI 
 
Certificate to be signed by the Class-I Gazetted Officer / Principal / Headmaster 
 
 
Name of the Candidate: _____________________________ 
 
Application No.: ____________________________________ 
 
 
It is certified that Mr./Ms.___________________ S/o -D/o Sh._______________________________________ 
R/o____________________________ appearing in NEET (UG) -2026 with application no.__________________ 
is/was studying in class _________ at ____________________ ________________________ (school) and his/her 
latest photograph matches with that in the application form. 
 
 
Name     : ______________________________________________ 
Designation    : ______________________________________________ 
Principal / Headmaster of the School / Class-I Gazetted Officer (such as Tehsildar, Revenue Officer, SDM, DM)  
Class-I Gazetted Officer of the Indian Embassy (for NRI Candidates) 
 
School Name and Address  : ______________________________________________ 
 
Contact Number    : ______________________________________________ 
 
Signature     : ______________________________________________ 
 
Stamp/Seal of Principal/Headmaster/ : ______________________________________________ 
Class-I Gazetted Officer 
 
 
Date :_______________ 
Place :______________ 
 
Note: The signature of the attesting authority should be affixed in such a manner that it appears partly on the 
certificate and partly on the latest photograph 
             
              
 
 
Live photograph as 
per NEET (UG) 2026 
application form 
 
Latest photograph to 
be affixed by the 
candidate duly 
attested by a 
Principal/Head 
Master/Class-I 
Gazetted Officer 

--- PAGE 124 ---
